software/modules/docs/pages/aggregation-flexible.adoc, before:

= Flexible aggregation functions
:last_updated: 11/05/2019
:permalink: /:collection/:path.html
:sidebar: mydoc_sidebar
:summary: Use the group_aggregate function in ThoughtSpot to aggregate measures at different granularities than the dimensions used in the search columns.

== How aggregation formulas work

Typically, the groupings and filters used in a formula use the same fields as columns returned in the search results.
The concept of a grouping equates to an attribute column.

For example, in the search `revenue ship mode`, `revenue` is the measure, and `ship mode` is the attribute, or grouping.
The result of this search shows total revenue for each ship mode:
[cols="15%,85%"]
|===
| revenue | ship mode

| $ _a_
| air

| $ _r_
| rail

| $ _t_
| truck

| $ _s_
| sea transport
|===

The aggregation formulas are described in link:aggregation-formulas.html#[Overview of aggregate formulas].

== About flexible aggregation

ThoughtSpot provides flexible aggregation with the `group_aggregate` function.
You can use this formula to group and filter query results on different dimensions and granularities from the columns already used in the search bar query.

The `group_aggregate` formula uses a sub-query to perform these custom aggregations.
If the sub-query is at a higher detailed level, ThoughtSpot adds the result column to the result of original query.
When the sub-query is at a finer detail level than the original query, ThoughtSpot uses _roll-up_, or _reaggregation_.

This is particularly useful for comparison analysis.

To use the groups and filters, specify them using the `query_groups` and `query_filters` keywords, respectively.
You can also add or exclude groups or filters.

{% include content/flexible-aggregation-best-practices.md %}

== Examples

For a search on `revenue monthly ship mode`, you can add a formula to calculate yearly revenue by ship mode:

----
group_aggregate(sum(revenue), {ship mode, year(commit date)}, {})
----

The same formula can also be written using `query_groups()` and `query_filters()` as following:

----
group_aggregate(sum(revenue), query_groups() - {commit date} + {year(commit date)}, {})
----

This is helpful to include the main query groups that are not known at formula creation time.
You can use `+/-` to modify the set of groups included from the query.

{% include note.html content="``+/-`` is currently supported only for `query_groups`, not `query_filters`."%}

== When group formula results are finer-grained than the search

With the flexibility of groupings for group formulas, the computed column created by a formula can be finer or courser grained than the search itself.

For example, you can have a search that shows *total yearly sales* and a formula that computes total sales _for each month_ (a finer-grained calculation than the search).

In such cases, if an additional aggregation is specified by the formula, the results get _reaggregated_.

Reaggregation can be applied in either of these ways:

* You can add an aggregation keyword just before a formula column in a search.
For example, in this search we've added the keyword *min* just before our formula for `monthly_sales`:
+
*sum revenue yearly min monthly_sales*
+
where, the `monthly_sales` formula is written as:
+
----
   group_aggregate(sum(revenue), {start_of_month(date)}, {})
----

* You can create a separate formula, such as in this search for:
+
*sum revenue yearly min_monthly_sales*
+
where, the `min_monthly_sales` formula is written as:
+
----
min(monthly_sales)
----

Alternatively, if no aggregation is specified, then the search query also inherits the formula groupings, as in this search:

*sum revenue yearly monthly_sales*

where, the original query is computed at a monthly grain instead of yearly.

== Reaggregation scenarios

Some scenarios require aggregation on an already aggregated result.

For example, computing minimum monthly sales per ship mode, requires two aggregations:

* the first aggregation of *sum* to compute total monthly sales per ship mode.
* the second aggregation of *min* to compute minimum sale that happened for any given month for that ship mode.

An example of this is this search:

*ship mode min monthly_sales*

where the formula `monthly_sales` is written as:

----
group_aggregate(sum(revenue), query_groups() + {start_of_month(date)}, {})
----

For more extensive examples of using the `group-aggregate` function, we encourage you to see link:{{site.baseurl}}/reference/practice/reaggregation-scenarios.html[Reaggreggation scenarios in practice]

== Groups and filters

Flexible group aggregate formulas allow for flexibility in both link:about-pinned-measures.html#[groupings] and link:filtered-agg-forms.html#[filters].
The formulas give you the ability to specify only groupings or only filters.

== Related information

* For more examples of flexible aggregation, see the link:{{site.baseurl}}/reference/practice/formula-reference.html#group_aggregate[group_aggregate] function in the link:{{site.baseurl}}/reference/formula-reference.html[Formula function reference].
* To learn about aggregation formulas in general, see link:aggregation-formulas.html#[Overview of aggregate formulas] and link:about-pinned-measures.html#[Group aggregation functions]
* To learn about how the `group-aggregate` function can be used within your business practice, we encourage you to see link:{{site.baseurl}}/reference/practice/reaggregation-scenarios.html[Reaggregation scenarios in practice]

Commit message:

various site updates
Signed-off-by: Mark Plummer <mark.plummer@thoughtspot.com>

software/modules/docs/pages/aggregation-flexible.adoc, after:

= Flexible aggregation functions
:last_updated: 11/05/2019

Use the group_aggregate function in ThoughtSpot to aggregate measures at different granularities than the dimensions used in the search columns.

== How aggregation formulas work

Typically, the groupings and filters used in a formula use the same fields as columns returned in the search results.
The concept of a grouping equates to an attribute column.

For example, in the search `revenue ship mode`, `revenue` is the measure, and `ship mode` is the attribute, or grouping.
The result of this search shows total revenue for each ship mode:
[cols="15%,85%"]
|===
| revenue | ship mode

| $ _a_
| air

| $ _r_
| rail

| $ _t_
| truck

| $ _s_
| sea transport
|===

The aggregation formulas are described in xref:aggregation-formulas.adoc[Overview of aggregate formulas].

== About flexible aggregation

ThoughtSpot provides flexible aggregation with the `group_aggregate` function.
You can use this formula to group and filter query results on different dimensions and granularities from the columns already used in the search bar query.

The `group_aggregate` formula uses a sub-query to perform these custom aggregations.
If the sub-query is at a higher detailed level, ThoughtSpot adds the result column to the result of original query.
When the sub-query is at a finer detail level than the original query, ThoughtSpot uses _roll-up_, or _reaggregation_.

This is particularly useful for comparison analysis.

To use the groups and filters, specify them using the `query_groups` and `query_filters` keywords, respectively.
You can also add or exclude groups or filters.

include::partial$flexible-aggregation-best-practices.adoc[]

== Examples

For a search on `revenue monthly ship mode`, you can add a formula to calculate yearly revenue by ship mode:
[source]
----
group_aggregate(sum(revenue), {ship mode, year(commit date)}, {})
----

The same formula can also be written using `query_groups()` and `query_filters()` as following:
[source]
----
group_aggregate(sum(revenue), query_groups() - {commit date} + {year(commit date)}, {})
----

This is helpful to include the main query groups that are not known at formula creation time.
You can use `+/-` to modify the set of groups included from the query.

NOTE: ``+/-`` is currently supported only for `query_groups`, not `query_filters`.

== When group formula results are finer-grained than the search

With the flexibility of groupings for group formulas, the computed column created by a formula can be finer or courser grained than the search itself.

For example, you can have a search that shows *total yearly sales* and a formula that computes total sales _for each month_ (a finer-grained calculation than the search).

In such cases, if an additional aggregation is specified by the formula, the results get _reaggregated_.

Reaggregation can be applied in either of these ways:

* You can add an aggregation keyword just before a formula column in a search.
For example, in this search we've added the keyword *min* just before our formula for `monthly_sales`:
+
*sum revenue yearly min monthly_sales*
+
where, the `monthly_sales` formula is written as:
+
[source]
----
group_aggregate(sum(revenue), {start_of_month(date)}, {})
----

* You can create a separate formula, such as in this search for:
+
*sum revenue yearly min_monthly_sales*
+
where, the `min_monthly_sales` formula is written as:
+
[source]
----
min(monthly_sales)
----

Alternatively, if no aggregation is specified, then the search query also inherits the formula groupings, as in this search:

*sum revenue yearly monthly_sales*

where, the original query is computed at a monthly grain instead of yearly.

== Reaggregation scenarios

Some scenarios require aggregation on an already aggregated result.

For example, computing minimum monthly sales per ship mode, requires two aggregations:

* the first aggregation of *sum* to compute total monthly sales per ship mode.
* the second aggregation of *min* to compute minimum sale that happened for any given month for that ship mode.

An example of this is this search:

*ship mode min monthly_sales*

where the formula `monthly_sales` is written as:
[source]
----
group_aggregate(sum(revenue), query_groups() + {start_of_month(date)}, {})
----

For more extensive examples of using the `group-aggregate` function, we encourage you to see xref:reaggregation-scenarios.adoc[Reaggreggation scenarios in practice]

== Groups and filters

Flexible group aggregate formulas allow for flexibility in both xref:about-pinned-measures.adoc[groupings] and xref:filtered-agg-forms.adoc[filters].
The formulas give you the ability to specify only groupings or only filters.

== Related information

* For more examples of flexible aggregation, see the xref:formula-reference.adoc#group_aggregate[group_aggregate] function in the xref:formula-reference.adoc[Formula function reference].
* To learn about aggregation formulas in general, see xref:aggregation-formulas.adoc[Overview of aggregate formulas] and xref:about-pinned-measures.adoc[Group aggregation functions]
* To learn about how the `group-aggregate` function can be used within your business practice, we encourage you to see xref:reaggregation-scenarios.adoc[Reaggregation scenarios in practice]
