software/modules/docs/pages/answers.adoc, before:

= Work with Answers
:last_updated: 02/01/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

Answers are the saved results of a search.

You can save the results of any search and share these with other people.
Your saved searches appear on the *Answers* page.
From this page, you can see answers you saved and answers other people have saved, provided these people shared them with you or a group you belong to.

== Apply a tag

Only administrators create tags, but anyone with edit privileges can tag an object with a tag.
To add a tag to an answer:

. Find the item(s) you want to tag in the list.
. Check the box next to its name.
. Click the apply tag icon and choose one from the list.

You can apply as many tags as you like to an object.

== Copy and edit an answer

You can edit a copy of an answer if you would like to make edits without changing the original answer.
When saving, you can type in a different name for your copy.

. Click *Answers*, on the top navigation bar.
. On the answer list page, click the answer you would like to edit a copy of.
. Click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Copy and edit*.
+
image::copy_an_answer.png[]
+
A copy of the answer is displayed with "`Copy of`" added to the beginning of the title.

. Make any changes you want to the answer.
. Click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Save*.
+
The Save Answer dialog box appears.
+
image::name_your_pinboard_copy.png[]

. Change the name and description, as needed, and click *Save*.
+
When you navigate back to the Answers page, your edited Answer appears in the list.

== Other features

You can view other Answer actions by selecting the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] at the top right corner of the Answer.

image::Answer-actions.png[Other Answer actions]

For example, you can xref:views.adoc[create a View] to use the Answer as a data source, xref:replay-search.adoc[replay the search] required to create the Answer, download the Answer, or export an Answer as a xref:tml.adoc[TML], or ThoughtSpot Modeling Language, file, optionally modify it, and xref:scriptability.adoc[migrate it to another cluster], or re-upload it to the same cluster.

== SpotIQ Insights for Answers

NOTE: Instant Insights are turned off by default.
They do not appear on answers, or elsewhere in the application, unless your administrator turns on the feature.

At the bottom of the *Answers* page, you can see an additional area, called *SpotIQ Insights*.
This area is derived from your original answer and you can select any of the insights to deepen your search.

image::other-answers-updated.png[]

The *SpotIQ Insights* section is only visible to users with the *Has SpotIQ* privilege.
After you expand an insight on this list, an *Edit* button allows you modify the insight and make it your own.
Your installation configuration determines how many insights can appear in this section.
The default is 6.

== Copy and edit a SpotIQ Insight

You can edit a copy of a SpotIQ Insight if you would like to make edits without changing the original insight.
When saving, you can type in a different name for your copy.

. Find the SpotIQ insight you want to edit and click it to open it as an answer.
. Click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Copy and edit*.

image::spot-iq-copy-and-edit.png[]

A copy of the answer is displayed with "`Copy of`" added to the beginning of the title.

. Make any changes you want to the answer.
. Click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Save*.
+
The *Save Answer* dialog box appears.
+
image::name_your_pinboard_copy.png[Name and save your answer copy]

. Change the name and description, as needed, and click *Save*.

Commit message:

answers redirect
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/docs/pages/answers.adoc, after:

= Work with Answers
:last_updated: 02/01/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:
:redirect_from: /end-user/search/work-with-answers.html

Answers are the saved results of a search.

You can save the results of any search and share these with other people.
Your saved searches appear on the *Answers* page.
From this page, you can see answers you saved and answers other people have saved, provided these people shared them with you or a group you belong to.

== Apply a tag

Only administrators create tags, but anyone with edit privileges can tag an object with a tag.
To add a tag to an answer:

. Find the item(s) you want to tag in the list.
. Check the box next to its name.
. Click the apply tag icon and choose one from the list.

You can apply as many tags as you like to an object.

== Copy and edit an answer

You can edit a copy of an answer if you would like to make edits without changing the original answer.
When saving, you can type in a different name for your copy.

. Click *Answers*, on the top navigation bar.
. On the answer list page, click the answer you would like to edit a copy of.
. Click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Copy and edit*.
+
image::copy_an_answer.png[]
+
A copy of the answer is displayed with "`Copy of`" added to the beginning of the title.

. Make any changes you want to the answer.
. Click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Save*.
+
The Save Answer dialog box appears.
+
image::name_your_pinboard_copy.png[]

. Change the name and description, as needed, and click *Save*.
+
When you navigate back to the Answers page, your edited Answer appears in the list.

== Other features

You can view other Answer actions by selecting the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] at the top right corner of the Answer.

image::Answer-actions.png[Other Answer actions]

For example, you can xref:views.adoc[create a View] to use the Answer as a data source, xref:replay-search.adoc[replay the search] required to create the Answer, download the Answer, or export an Answer as a xref:tml.adoc[TML], or ThoughtSpot Modeling Language, file, optionally modify it, and xref:scriptability.adoc[migrate it to another cluster], or re-upload it to the same cluster.

== SpotIQ Insights for Answers

NOTE: Instant Insights are turned off by default.
They do not appear on answers, or elsewhere in the application, unless your administrator turns on the feature.

At the bottom of the *Answers* page, you can see an additional area, called *SpotIQ Insights*.
This area is derived from your original answer and you can select any of the insights to deepen your search.

image::other-answers-updated.png[]

The *SpotIQ Insights* section is only visible to users with the *Has SpotIQ* privilege.
After you expand an insight on this list, an *Edit* button allows you modify the insight and make it your own.
Your installation configuration determines how many insights can appear in this section.
The default is 6.

== Copy and edit a SpotIQ Insight

You can edit a copy of a SpotIQ Insight if you would like to make edits without changing the original insight.
When saving, you can type in a different name for your copy.

. Find the SpotIQ insight you want to edit and click it to open it as an answer.
. Click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Copy and edit*.

image::spot-iq-copy-and-edit.png[]

A copy of the answer is displayed with "`Copy of`" added to the beginning of the title.

. Make any changes you want to the answer.
. Click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Save*.
+
The *Save Answer* dialog box appears.
+
image::name_your_pinboard_copy.png[Name and save your answer copy]

. Change the name and description, as needed, and click *Save*.
