software/modules/docs/pages/aws-cluster-install.adoc, before:

= Install ThoughtSpot clusters in AWS
:last_updated: 04/30/2021
:experimental:
:linkattrs:

Learn how to install ThoughtSpot clusters in AWS.

== Prerequisites

Before you install your ThoughtSpot clusters in AWS, complete these prerequisites.

[cols="5,~",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
| &#10063; | xref:aws-configuration-options.adoc[1. Review AWS configuration options] for detailed instance specifications.
| &#10063; | xref:aws-launch-instance.adoc[2. Create and launch an AWS instance].
| &#10063; | xref:ports.adoc[3. Review required network ports] for successful operation of ThoughtSpot.
| &#10063; | xref:aws-installing.adoc[4. Configure ThoughtSpot nodes in AWS] to configure your nodes.
|===

[#cluster-install]
== Install ThoughtSpot Software

Install the cluster using the ThoughtSpot software release bundle.
The estimated installation time is one hour.

Follow the steps in this checklist.

[cols="5,~",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
| &#10063; | <<cluster-step-1,Step 1: Run the installer>>
| &#10063; | <<cluster-step-2,Step 2: Check cluster health>>
| &#10063; | <<cluster-step-3,Step 3: Finalize installation>>
|===

Refer to your welcome letter from ThoughtSpot to find the link to download the release bundle.
If you do not have a link, open a support ticket with https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support^] to request access to the release bundle.

[#cluster-step-1]
=== Step 1: Run the installer

. Copy the downloaded release bundle to `/export/xvdb1/TS_TASKS/install` using the following command:
+
[source,bash]
----
$ scp -i key.pem <release-number>.tar.gz admin@<hostname>:
       /export/xvdb1/TS_TASKS/install/<file-name>
----
+
Note the following parameters:

`release-number`::
  is the release number of your ThoughtSpot instance, such as 5.3, 6.0, and so on.
`hostname`::
  is your specific hostname.
`file-name`::
  is the name of the tarball file on your local computer.

+
NOTE: You can use another secure copy method, if you prefer a method other than the `scp` command.

. Alternatively, use `tscli fileserver download-release` to download the release bundle.
+
You must xref:tscli-command-ref.adoc#tscli-fileserver[configure the fileserver] by running `tscli fileserver configure` before you can download the release.
+
[source,bash]
----
 $ tscli fileserver download-release <release-number>
         --user <username> --out <release-location>
----
+
Note the following parameters:

`release-number`::
  is the release number of your ThoughtSpot instance, such as 5.3, 5.3.1, 6.0, and so on.
`username`::
  is the username for the fileserver that you set up earlier, when configuring the fileserver.
`release-location`::
  is the location path of the release bundle on your local machine. For example, `/export/xvdb1/TS_TASKS/install/6.0.tar.gz`.

. Verify the checksum to ensure you have the correct release. Run:
+
[source,bash]
----
$ md5sum -c <release-number>.tar.gz.MD5checksum
----
+
Your output says `ok` if you have the correct release.

. Launch a https://linux.die.net/man/1/screen[screen, window=_blank] session.
Use screen to ensure that your installation does not stop if you lose network connectivity.
+
[source,bash]
----
$ screen -S DEPLOYMENT
----

. Take a machine snapshot prior to the release deployment, as a best practice.

. Create the cluster by running the `tscli cluster create` command.
+
If you are using an s3 bucket for object storage, include the flag `--enable_cloud_storage=s3a`.
+
[source,bash]
----
$ tscli cluster create <release-number>.tar.gz --enable_cloud_storage=s3a
----

. Edit the output with your specific cluster information.
+
For more information on this process, refer xref:cluster-create.adoc[Using the tscli cluster create command] and xref:parameters-cluster-create.adoc[Parameters of the `cluster create` command].
+
The cluster installer automatically reboots all the nodes after a successful install.
The `firewalld` service automatically turns on.
At this time, the system is rebooting, which may take approximately 15 minutes.
Log in to any node to check the current cluster status:
+
[source,bash]
----
$ tscli cluster status
----

[#cluster-step-2]
=== Step 2: Check cluster health

After the cluster installs, check its status using the `tscli cluster status` command.

Your output may look similar to the following:

[source,bash]
----
$ tscli cluster status
Cluster: RUNNING
Cluster name    : thoughtspot
Cluster id      : 1234X11111
Number of nodes : 3
Release         : 6.0
Last update     = Wed Oct 16 02:24:18 2019
Heterogeneous Cluster : False
Storage Type    : HDFS

Database: READY
Number of tables in READY state: 2185
Number of tables in OFFLINE state: 0
Number of tables in INPROGRESS state: 0
Number of tables in STALE state: 0
Number of tables in ERROR state: 0

Search Engine: READY
Has pending tables. Pending time = 1601679ms
Number of tables in KNOWN_TABLES state: 1934
Number of tables in READY state: 1928
Number of tables in WILL_REMOVE state: 0
Number of tables in BUILDING_AND_NOT_SERVING state: 0
Number of tables in BUILDING_AND_SERVING state: 128
Number of tables in WILL_NOT_INDEX state: 0
----

Ensure that the cluster is `RUNNING` and that the Database and Search Engine are `READY`.

Your output may look like the following listing.
Ensure that all diagnostics show `SUCCESS`.

[source,bash]
----
 $ tscli cluster check
 Connecting to hosts...
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] START Diagnosing ssh
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] START Diagnosing connection
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] START Diagnosing zookeeper
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] START Diagnosing sage
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] START Diagnosing timezone
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] START Diagnosing disk
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] START Diagnosing cassandra
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] START Diagnosing hdfs
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:02 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:02 2020] START Diagnosing orion-oreo
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:02 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:02 2020] START Diagnosing memcheck
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:02 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:02 2020] START Diagnosing ntp
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:08 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:08 2020] START Diagnosing trace_vault
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:09 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:09 2020] START Diagnosing postgres
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:11 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:11 2020] START Diagnosing disk-health
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:11 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:11 2020] START Diagnosing falcon
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:12 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:12 2020] START Diagnosing orion-cgroups
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:12 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:12 2020] START Diagnosing callosum
 /usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/urllib3/connectionpool.py:852: InsecureRequestWarning: Unverified HTTPS request is being made. Adding certificate verification is strongly advised. See: https://urllib3.readthedocs.io/en/latest/advanced-usage.html#ssl-warnings
   InsecureRequestWarning)
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:12 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
----

CAUTION: If `tscli cluster check` returns an error, it may suggest you run `tscli storage gc` to resolve the issue.
If you run `tscli storage gc`, note that it restarts your cluster.

[#cluster-step-3]
=== Step 3: Finalize installation

After the cluster status changes to `READY`, sign in to ThoughtSpot on your browser.
Follow these steps:

. Start a browser from your computer.
. Enter your secure IP information on the address line.
+
[source,bash]
----
https://<VM-IP>
----

. If you don't have a security certificate for ThoughtSpot, you must bypass the security warning:
+
Click *Advanced*.
+
Click *Proceed*.
. The ThoughtSpot sign-in page appears.
. In the <<ts-login,ThoughtSpot sign-in window>>, enter admin credentials, and click *Sign in*.
+
ThoughtSpot recommends changing the default admin password.
+
[#ts-login]
image:ts-login-page.png[ThoughtSpot's sign-in window]

[#lean-configuration]
== Lean configuration

*For use with thin provisioning only:* If you have a xref:deploying-cloud.adoc#small-medium[small or medium instance type], with less than 100GB of data, you must use advanced lean configuration before loading any data into ThoughtSpot.
After installing the cluster, configure advanced lean mode.

To configure advanced lean mode, do the following:

. SSH as admin into your ThoughtSpot cluster, using the following syntax:
+
[source,bash]
----
ssh admin@<cluster-ip-address or hostname>
----
. Run the advanced lean mode configuration using the following syntax:
+
[source,bash]
----
tscli config-mode lean [-h] --type {small,medium,default}
----
+
Examples:

 ** To configure your instance with the "small" data size, run:
+
[source,bash]
----
tscli config-mode lean [-h] --type small
----
** To configure your instance with the "medium" data size, run:
+
[source,bash]
----
tscli config-mode lean [-h] --type medium
----

+
NOTE: If you decide later you want to disable advanced lean mode, use `default`.

== Additional resources

As you develop your expertise in AWS cluster installation, we recommend the following ThoughtSpot U course:

* https://training.thoughtspot.com/create-upgrade-patch-a-thoughtspot-cluster/430642[Create a Cluster, window=_blank]

See other training resources at
image::ts-u.png[link="https://training.thoughtspot.com/", window=_blank]

'''
> **Related information**
>
> * xref:nodesconfig-example.adoc[The nodes.config file]
> * xref:parameters-nodesconfig.adoc[Parameters of the nodes.config file]
> * xref:cluster-create.adoc[Using the tscli cluster create command]
> * xref:parameters-cluster-create.adoc[Parameters of the cluster create command]
> * Contact https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support, window=_blank]

Commit message:

SCAL-79999 (1) updated all *Related information* to standard callout (no longer an H2), (2) updated all references to ThoughtSpot U with course link and top-level reference, in a standard callout, at top of article or section, (3) updated check off lists to new format in many afticles, (4) deleted tsl-answer and tsl-pinboard articles, as these were redundant
Signed-off-by: Roza Leyderman <roza.leyderman@thoughtspot.com>

software/modules/docs/pages/aws-cluster-install.adoc, after:

= Install ThoughtSpot clusters in AWS
:last_updated: 04/30/2021
:experimental:
:linkattrs:

Learn how to install ThoughtSpot clusters in AWS.

'''
> **ThoughtSpot Training**
>
> * For best results in setting up ThoughtSpot on AWS, we recommend that you take the following ThoughtSpot U course: https://training.thoughtspot.com/create-upgrade-patch-a-thoughtspot-cluster/430642[Create a Cluster^].
> * See other training resources at https://training.thoughtspot.com/[ThoughtSpot U^].

'''

== Prerequisites

Before you install your ThoughtSpot clusters in AWS, complete these prerequisites.

[cols="5,~",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
| &#10063; | xref:aws-configuration-options.adoc[1. Review AWS configuration options] for detailed instance specifications.
| &#10063; | xref:aws-launch-instance.adoc[2. Create and launch an AWS instance].
| &#10063; | xref:ports.adoc[3. Review required network ports] for successful operation of ThoughtSpot.
| &#10063; | xref:aws-installing.adoc[4. Configure ThoughtSpot nodes in AWS] to configure your nodes.
|===

[#cluster-install]
== Install ThoughtSpot Software

Install the cluster using the ThoughtSpot software release bundle.
The estimated installation time is one hour.

Follow the steps in this checklist.

[cols="5,~",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
| &#10063; | <<cluster-step-1,Step 1: Run the installer>>
| &#10063; | <<cluster-step-2,Step 2: Check cluster health>>
| &#10063; | <<cluster-step-3,Step 3: Finalize installation>>
|===

Refer to your welcome letter from ThoughtSpot to find the link to download the release bundle.
If you do not have a link, open a support ticket with https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support^] to request access to the release bundle.

[#cluster-step-1]
=== Step 1: Run the installer

. Copy the downloaded release bundle to `/export/xvdb1/TS_TASKS/install` using the following command:
+
[source,bash]
----
$ scp -i key.pem <release-number>.tar.gz admin@<hostname>:
       /export/xvdb1/TS_TASKS/install/<file-name>
----
+
Note the following parameters:

`release-number`::
  is the release number of your ThoughtSpot instance, such as 5.3, 6.0, and so on.
`hostname`::
  is your specific hostname.
`file-name`::
  is the name of the tarball file on your local computer.

+
NOTE: You can use another secure copy method, if you prefer a method other than the `scp` command.

. Alternatively, use `tscli fileserver download-release` to download the release bundle.
+
You must xref:tscli-command-ref.adoc#tscli-fileserver[configure the fileserver] by running `tscli fileserver configure` before you can download the release.
+
[source,bash]
----
 $ tscli fileserver download-release <release-number>
         --user <username> --out <release-location>
----
+
Note the following parameters:

`release-number`::
  is the release number of your ThoughtSpot instance, such as 5.3, 5.3.1, 6.0, and so on.
`username`::
  is the username for the fileserver that you set up earlier, when configuring the fileserver.
`release-location`::
  is the location path of the release bundle on your local machine. For example, `/export/xvdb1/TS_TASKS/install/6.0.tar.gz`.

. Verify the checksum to ensure you have the correct release. Run:
+
[source,bash]
----
$ md5sum -c <release-number>.tar.gz.MD5checksum
----
+
Your output says `ok` if you have the correct release.

. Launch a https://linux.die.net/man/1/screen[screen^] session.
Use screen to ensure that your installation does not stop if you lose network connectivity.
+
[source,bash]
----
$ screen -S DEPLOYMENT
----

. Take a machine snapshot prior to the release deployment, as a best practice.

. Create the cluster by running the `tscli cluster create` command.
+
If you are using an s3 bucket for object storage, include the flag `--enable_cloud_storage=s3a`.
+
[source,bash]
----
$ tscli cluster create <release-number>.tar.gz --enable_cloud_storage=s3a
----

. Edit the output with your specific cluster information.
+
For more information on this process, refer xref:cluster-create.adoc[Using the tscli cluster create command] and xref:parameters-cluster-create.adoc[Parameters of the `cluster create` command].
+
The cluster installer automatically reboots all the nodes after a successful install.
The `firewalld` service automatically turns on.
At this time, the system is rebooting, which may take approximately 15 minutes.
Log in to any node to check the current cluster status:
+
[source,bash]
----
$ tscli cluster status
----

[#cluster-step-2]
=== Step 2: Check cluster health

After the cluster installs, check its status using the `tscli cluster status` command.

Your output may look similar to the following:

[source,bash]
----
$ tscli cluster status
Cluster: RUNNING
Cluster name    : thoughtspot
Cluster id      : 1234X11111
Number of nodes : 3
Release         : 6.0
Last update     = Wed Oct 16 02:24:18 2019
Heterogeneous Cluster : False
Storage Type    : HDFS

Database: READY
Number of tables in READY state: 2185
Number of tables in OFFLINE state: 0
Number of tables in INPROGRESS state: 0
Number of tables in STALE state: 0
Number of tables in ERROR state: 0

Search Engine: READY
Has pending tables. Pending time = 1601679ms
Number of tables in KNOWN_TABLES state: 1934
Number of tables in READY state: 1928
Number of tables in WILL_REMOVE state: 0
Number of tables in BUILDING_AND_NOT_SERVING state: 0
Number of tables in BUILDING_AND_SERVING state: 128
Number of tables in WILL_NOT_INDEX state: 0
----

Ensure that the cluster is `RUNNING` and that the Database and Search Engine are `READY`.

Your output may look like the following listing.
Ensure that all diagnostics show `SUCCESS`.

[source,bash]
----
 $ tscli cluster check
 Connecting to hosts...
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] START Diagnosing ssh
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] START Diagnosing connection
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] START Diagnosing zookeeper
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] START Diagnosing sage
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] START Diagnosing timezone
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] START Diagnosing disk
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] START Diagnosing cassandra
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] START Diagnosing hdfs
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:02 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:02 2020] START Diagnosing orion-oreo
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:02 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:02 2020] START Diagnosing memcheck
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:02 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:02 2020] START Diagnosing ntp
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:08 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:08 2020] START Diagnosing trace_vault
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:09 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:09 2020] START Diagnosing postgres
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:11 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:11 2020] START Diagnosing disk-health
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:11 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:11 2020] START Diagnosing falcon
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:12 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:12 2020] START Diagnosing orion-cgroups
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:12 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:12 2020] START Diagnosing callosum
 /usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/urllib3/connectionpool.py:852: InsecureRequestWarning: Unverified HTTPS request is being made. Adding certificate verification is strongly advised. See: https://urllib3.readthedocs.io/en/latest/advanced-usage.html#ssl-warnings
   InsecureRequestWarning)
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:12 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
----

CAUTION: If `tscli cluster check` returns an error, it may suggest you run `tscli storage gc` to resolve the issue.
If you run `tscli storage gc`, note that it restarts your cluster.

[#cluster-step-3]
=== Step 3: Finalize installation

After the cluster status changes to `READY`, sign in to ThoughtSpot on your browser.
Follow these steps:

. Start a browser from your computer.
. Enter your secure IP information on the address line.
+
[source,bash]
----
https://<VM-IP>
----

. If you don't have a security certificate for ThoughtSpot, you must bypass the security warning:
+
Click *Advanced*.
+
Click *Proceed*.
. The ThoughtSpot sign-in page appears.
. In the <<ts-login,ThoughtSpot sign-in window>>, enter admin credentials, and click *Sign in*.
+
ThoughtSpot recommends changing the default admin password.
+
[#ts-login]
image:ts-login-page.png[ThoughtSpot's sign-in window]

[#lean-configuration]
== Lean configuration

*For use with thin provisioning only:* If you have a xref:deploying-cloud.adoc#small-medium[small or medium instance type], with less than 100GB of data, you must use advanced lean configuration before loading any data into ThoughtSpot.
After installing the cluster, configure advanced lean mode.

To configure advanced lean mode, do the following:

. SSH as admin into your ThoughtSpot cluster, using the following syntax:
+
[source,bash]
----
ssh admin@<cluster-ip-address or hostname>
----
. Run the advanced lean mode configuration using the following syntax:
+
[source,bash]
----
tscli config-mode lean [-h] --type {small,medium,default}
----
+
Examples:

 ** To configure your instance with the "small" data size, run:
+
[source,bash]
----
tscli config-mode lean [-h] --type small
----
** To configure your instance with the "medium" data size, run:
+
[source,bash]
----
tscli config-mode lean [-h] --type medium
----

+
NOTE: If you decide later you want to disable advanced lean mode, use `default`.

'''
> **Related information**
>
> * xref:nodesconfig-example.adoc[The nodes.config file]
> * xref:parameters-nodesconfig.adoc[Parameters of the nodes.config file]
> * xref:cluster-create.adoc[Using the tscli cluster create command]
> * xref:parameters-cluster-create.adoc[Parameters of the cluster create command]
> * Contact https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support^]
