software/modules/docs/pages/aws-installing.adoc, before:

= Configure ThoughtSpot nodes in AWS
:last_updated: 01/02/2021
:experimental:
:linkattrs:

Prepare to install your ThoughtSpot cluster by configuring nodes.

Before you can install a ThoughtSpot cluster in AWS, you must configure your nodes.

[#installation-prerequisites]
== Installation Prerequisites

Ensure the successful creation of the virtual machines (VMs) before you install the ThoughtSpot cluster in AWS:

[cols="5,~",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
| &#10063; |  xref:aws-configuration-options.adoc[1. Review AWS configuration options] for detailed instance specs.
| &#10063; |  xref:aws-launch-instance.adoc[2. Set up AWS for ThoughtSpot] to create and launch your instance.
| &#10063; |  xref:ports.adoc[3. Review Network ports documentation] to view the required ports for successful operation of ThoughtSpot.
|===

[#configure-nodes]
== Configure Nodes

After creating the instance, you must configure the nodes.

Follow the steps in this checklist.

[cols="5,~",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
| &#10063; |  <<node-step-1,Step 1: Log in to your cluster>>
| &#10063; |  <<node-step-2,Step 2: Get a template for node configuration>>
| &#10063; |  <<node-step-3,Step 3: Prepare node configuration>>
| &#10063; |  <<node-step-4,Step 4: Configure the nodes>>
| &#10063; |  <<node-step-5,Step 5: Confirm node configuration>>
|===

[#node-step-1]
include::partial$configure-nodes-steps1through5.adoc[]

== Install ThoughtSpot software

Next, xref:aws-cluster-install.adoc[install your ThoughtSpot clusters].

== Additional resources

As you develop your expertise in network configuration, we recommend the following ThoughtSpot U course:

* https://training.thoughtspot.com/node-network-configuration/437249[Network Configuration]

See other training resources at + https://training.thoughtspot.com/[<img src="{{ "/images/ts-u.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="ThoughtSpot U">]

include::partial$install-cluster-error-recovery.adoc[]

'''
> **Related information**
>
> Use these references for successful installation and administration of ThoughtSpot:
> * xref:nodesconfig-example.adoc[The nodes.config file]
> * xref:parameters-nodesconfig.adoc[Parameters of the nodes.config file]
> * xref:cluster-create.adoc[Using the tscli cluster create command]
> * xref:parameters-cluster-create.adoc[Parameters of the cluster create command]
> * Contact https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support,window="_blank"].

Commit message:

SCAL-79999 (1) updated all *Related information* to standard callout (no longer an H2), (2) updated all references to ThoughtSpot U with course link and top-level reference, in a standard callout, at top of article or section, (3) updated check off lists to new format in many afticles, (4) deleted tsl-answer and tsl-pinboard articles, as these were redundant
Signed-off-by: Roza Leyderman <roza.leyderman@thoughtspot.com>

software/modules/docs/pages/aws-installing.adoc, after:

= Configure ThoughtSpot nodes in AWS
:last_updated: 01/02/2021
:experimental:
:linkattrs:

Prepare to install your ThoughtSpot cluster by configuring nodes.

'''
> **ThoughtSpot Training**
>
> * For best results when configuring ThoughtSpot nodes on AWS, we recommend that you take the following ThoughtSpot U course: https://training.thoughtspot.com/node-network-configuration/437249[Network Configuration^].
> * See other training resources at https://training.thoughtspot.com/[ThoughtSpot U^].

'''
Before you can install a ThoughtSpot cluster in AWS, you must configure your nodes.

[#installation-prerequisites]
== Installation Prerequisites

Ensure the successful creation of the virtual machines (VMs) before you install the ThoughtSpot cluster in AWS:

[cols="5,~",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
| &#10063; |  xref:aws-configuration-options.adoc[1. Review AWS configuration options] for detailed instance specs.
| &#10063; |  xref:aws-launch-instance.adoc[2. Set up AWS for ThoughtSpot] to create and launch your instance.
| &#10063; |  xref:ports.adoc[3. Review Network ports documentation] to view the required ports for successful operation of ThoughtSpot.
|===

[#configure-nodes]
== Configure Nodes

After creating the instance, you must configure the nodes.

Follow the steps in this checklist.

[cols="5,~",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
| &#10063; |  <<node-step-1,Step 1: Log in to your cluster>>
| &#10063; |  <<node-step-2,Step 2: Get a template for node configuration>>
| &#10063; |  <<node-step-3,Step 3: Prepare node configuration>>
| &#10063; |  <<node-step-4,Step 4: Configure the nodes>>
| &#10063; |  <<node-step-5,Step 5: Confirm node configuration>>
|===

[#node-step-1]
include::partial$configure-nodes-steps1through5.adoc[]

== Install ThoughtSpot software

Next, xref:aws-cluster-install.adoc[install your ThoughtSpot clusters].

include::partial$install-cluster-error-recovery.adoc[]

'''
> **Related information**
>
> * xref:nodesconfig-example.adoc[The nodes.config file]
> * xref:parameters-nodesconfig.adoc[Parameters of the nodes.config file]
> * xref:cluster-create.adoc[Using the tscli cluster create command]
> * xref:parameters-cluster-create.adoc[Parameters of the cluster create command]
> * Contact https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support^].
