software/modules/docs/pages/chart-axes-options.adoc, before:

= Change axis options
:last_updated: 7/29/2020

In ThoughtSpot, you can start changing all axes options by clicking on the axis, directly in the chart.

To change the axis, you can click the axis itself.
This opens the detail axis customization menu in the chart.

image::edit-axis.gif[Change axis]

[#aggregate]
== Change the axis aggregate

To change the axis aggregation, click the *Aggregate* option in the axis menu, and select an alternative from the list of options.

Depending on the type of data type and other settings, the aggregation options include _Total_, _Avg_, _Min_, _Max_, _Total Count_, _Unique Count_, _Std Deviation_, and _Variance_.

image::edit-axis-aggregate.png[Change axis aggregate]

[#filter]
== Add, Change, and Remove Filters

To manage the filters applied to the axis (in this example, _Total Sales_), follow these steps:

. Click the *Filters* option in the axis menu.
+
image::edit-axis-filter.png[Change axis filter]

. In the window modal, click *+ add a condition*.
+
image::edit-axis-filter-1.png[Add a condition to axis]

. Select the comparison option.
+
Here, the options include _is greater than_, _is greater than or equal to_, _is less than_, _is less than or equal to_, _is between_, _is in_, and _is not in_.
+
In this example, select _is greater than or equal to_.
+
image::edit-axis-filter-2.png[Set filter comparison operation]

. Set the relevant numerical limits.
+
Here, enter the maximum of `1000000`.
+
image::edit-axis-filter-3.png[Set filter numerical limit]
+
Note that if you select the _is between_ comparison operator, you must set two limits: minimum and maximum.
Similarly, _is in_ and _is not in_ operators require a list of values separated by ";".

. To add another filter condition, click *+add another*.
+
image::edit-axis-filter-4.png[Add another filter condition]

. To remove a filter condition, click the delete icon (*x*) next to its definition.
+
image::edit-axis-filter-5.png[Remove filter condition]

. Click *Done*.
+
image::edit-axis-filter-6.png[Complete filter on axis]

Here, you can see differences between the original chart and the one with the filter applied: Three (3) of the departments had sales under $1,000,000, and they don't appear on the newer chart.

image::edit-axis-filter-applied.png[Chart with filter applied]

To remove a filter from the chart, click the *x* icon on the filter tile.

image::edit-axis-filter-remove.png[Remove filter from a chart]

[#conditional-formatting]
== Apply conditional formatting

To apply conditional formatting to the axis (in this example, _Total Sales_), follow these steps:

. Click the *Conditional formatting* option in the axis menu.
+
image::edit-axis-conditional-formatting.png[Add conditional formatting]

. The *Conditional formatting* window modal appears.
+
image::edit-axis-conditional-formatting-1.png[Conditional formatting interface]

. In the window modal, click *+ add formatting*.
+
image::edit-axis-conditional-formatting-2.png[Add a format]

. Select the conditional range.
+
The text area on the left specifies the lower limit of the condition, so the condition applies to all values that are greater or equal to it.
And the text area on the right specifies the upper limit of the condition, so the condition applies to all lower values.

 ** To show show values with a lower limit, enter a value in the left text box.
 ** To show values with an upper limit, enter a value in the right text box.
 ** To show values in a specified range, enter the appropriate values in both text boxes.

+
Here, we apply conditional formatting to values between `5,500,000` and `8,000,000`.
+
image::edit-axis-conditional-formatting-3.png[Add conditional format range]

. To specify a different color of the conditional format, select the new color from the color selector.
+
This option draws upper and lower limit lines on the chart, and colors the chart elements that meet the conditional requirements.
+
image::edit-axis-conditional-formatting-4.png[Change conditional format color]
+
Alternatively, you can place a range band on the chart.
Select the *Fill chart* option.
+
image::edit-axis-conditional-formatting-8.png[Add conditional format band]

. To add another condition, click *+add formatting*.
+
image::edit-axis-conditional-formatting-5.png[Add another conditional format]

. To remove a defined conditional format, click the delete icon (*x*) next to its definition.
+
image::edit-axis-conditional-formatting-6.png[Remove conditional format]

. Click *Done*.
+
image::edit-axis-conditional-formatting-7.png[Complete conditional format]

Here, you can see a chart that highlights elements with conditional  formatting on some elements.
You can also see how the same chart appears with a background chart band.

image::edit-axis-conditional-formatting-applied-comparison.png[Conditional formatting applied, two options]

[#sort]
== Change the Sort

To change the sorting of a measurement on an axis, click the *Sort* option in the axis menu, and select an alternative from the list of options: _Ascending_ or _Descending_.

image::edit-axis-sort.png[Change axis sort]

Here, you can compare the original chart that was not sorted on the _Total Sales_ axis with the chart that uses descending sort.

image::edit-axis-sort-applied.png[Compare unsorted chart and chart sorted in Descending order]

[#position]
== Change the postion of the axis

It is generally easier to interpret a chart if axes that use the same units of measurement or scale appear on the same side of the chart.
In our example, we can best visualize _Item Cost_ and _Item Price_ on the same side of chart.

To change the position of an axis, select the *Position* option in the axis menu, and then select an alternative from the list of options: _Left_ or _Right_.

Here, we move the _Item Price_ axis from the right side of the chart to the left side.

image::edit-axis-position.png[Change axis position]

You can compare the original chart with the one where the _Total Sales_ axis is on the right, while _Item Cost_ and _Item Price_ both appear on the left.

image::edit-axis-position-applied.png[Compare charts with different position assignments]

[#grouping]
== Change the Grouping

When two axis use the same unit of measure and a similar scale, we can group them together.

To change the grouping on an axis, click the *Group* option in the axis menu, and select an alternative from the list of options, which are the measurements on the other axes.

Here, we change the _Item Price_ axis by grouping it with _Item Cost_.

image::edit-axis-group.png[Group two axes]

Compare the original chart with one that groups _Item Price_ and _Item Cost_ as _Item Price & Item Cost_.
The chart looks cleaner, and clearly communicates the distinct information on each of the two measurements.

image::edit-axis-group-applied.png[Compare ungrouped chart and chart that groups similar measures]

Notice that the *Edit chart: Customize* menu shows a linkage between the two grouped axes.

image::edit-axis-group-menu.png[Grouped axes]

[#rename]
== Rename the axis

You can always rename an axis for clarity, brevity, format, and so on.

In our example, it makes sense to rename the axis created from grouping as _Item Price & Item Cost_ to something shorter, like _Item Price and Cost_.

To rename an axis, select the *Rename* option in the axis menu, type the new name, and either click out or hit *Enter/Return* on your keyboard.

image::edit-axis-rename.png[Rename axis]

[#edit]
== Edit the axis

When you choose to edit the axis, you get the comprehensive view of everything that can be changed on the axis: you can *Configure* the axis name, position (left or right), and the minimum and maximum values, and you can *Format* the category of the column, its units, and the representation of negative values.

image::edit-axis-options.gif[Edit the axis]

To edit this axis (in this example, _Item Price_), follow these steps:

. Click the *Item Price* axis.
. In the drop-down, select *Edit*.
. The *Edit Axis* menu appears.
. In the *Edit Axis* menu, make the changes to the axis configuration and number format:

Configure::
Name::: Change the name of the axis. Also see <<rename,Rename the axis>>.
Position::: Change the position of the axis relative to the chart. The options are _Right_ and _Left_. Also see <<position,Change the position of the axis>>.
Min::: Change the minimum value on the axis. For example, most charts default to 0-based axis representation for numerical values; this setting overrides it.
Max::: Change the maximum value on the axis. Similar to _Min_ limit.
Format::
Category::: This specifies the format of the axis measurements. Options include _Number_, _Percentage_, and _Currency_.
Unit::: Unit choice specifies the representation of numbers on the axis. Options include _Auto_ (ThoughtSpot uses abbreviations for really large numbers only), _None_, _Thousand (K)_, _Million (M)_, _Billion (B)_, and _Trillion (T)_.
Negative values::: Specify the representation of negative numbers in one of these formats: _-1234_, _1234-_, or _(1234)_.+++</dlentry>++++++</dlentry>+++

[#remove]
== Remove the axis

Removing the axis removes the data from the display, but not from the answer entirely.
Instead, the column that the axis represents appears in the *Not visualized* section of the *Edit chart: Customize* menu.

image::remove-axis.gif[Remove the axis]

To remove an axis (in this example, _Item Price_), follow these steps:

. Click the *Item Price* axis.
. In the drop-down, select *x Remove*.
. The *Edit chart: Customize* menu appears.
+
Notice that the *Item Price* _axis_ and the corresponding data no longer appear on the visual.
However, the *Item Price* _column_ appears in the *Not visualized* section of the *Edit chart: Customize* menu.

Commit message:

fixed section ID TOC in Change axis options
Signed-off-by: naomi.lattanzi <naomi.lattanzi@thoughtspot.com>

software/modules/docs/pages/chart-axes-options.adoc, after:

= Change axis options
:last_updated: 7/29/2020

In ThoughtSpot, you can start changing all axes options by clicking on the axis, directly in the chart.

To change the axis, you can click the axis itself.
This opens the detail axis customization menu in the chart.

You can make the following changes to the axis:

* xref:chart-axes-options.adoc#aggregate[Aggregate]
* xref:chart-axes-options.adoc#filter[Filter]
* xref:chart-axes-options.adoc#conditional-formatting[Conditional formatting]
* xref:chart-axes-options.adoc#sort[Sort]
* xref:chart-axes-options.adoc#position[Position]
* xref:chart-axes-options.adoc#grouping[Grouping]
* xref:chart-axes-options.adoc#rename[Rename]
* xref:chart-axes-options.adoc#edit[Edit]
* xref:chart-axes-options.adoc#remove[Remove]

image::edit-axis.gif[Change axis]

[#aggregate]
== Change the axis aggregate

To change the axis aggregation, click the *Aggregate* option in the axis menu, and select an alternative from the list of options.

Depending on the type of data type and other settings, the aggregation options include _Total_, _Avg_, _Min_, _Max_, _Total Count_, _Unique Count_, _Std Deviation_, and _Variance_.

image::edit-axis-aggregate.png[Change axis aggregate]

[#filter]
== Add, Change, and Remove Filters

To manage the filters applied to the axis (in this example, _Total Sales_), follow these steps:

. Click the *Filters* option in the axis menu.
+
image::edit-axis-filter.png[Change axis filter]

. In the window modal, click *+ add a condition*.
+
image::edit-axis-filter-1.png[Add a condition to axis]

. Select the comparison option.
+
Here, the options include _is greater than_, _is greater than or equal to_, _is less than_, _is less than or equal to_, _is between_, _is in_, and _is not in_.
+
In this example, select _is greater than or equal to_.
+
image::edit-axis-filter-2.png[Set filter comparison operation]

. Set the relevant numerical limits.
+
Here, enter the maximum of `1000000`.
+
image::edit-axis-filter-3.png[Set filter numerical limit]
+
Note that if you select the _is between_ comparison operator, you must set two limits: minimum and maximum.
Similarly, _is in_ and _is not in_ operators require a list of values separated by ";".

. To add another filter condition, click *+add another*.
+
image::edit-axis-filter-4.png[Add another filter condition]

. To remove a filter condition, click the delete icon (*x*) next to its definition.
+
image::edit-axis-filter-5.png[Remove filter condition]

. Click *Done*.
+
image::edit-axis-filter-6.png[Complete filter on axis]

Here, you can see differences between the original chart and the one with the filter applied: Three (3) of the departments had sales under $1,000,000, and they don't appear on the newer chart.

image::edit-axis-filter-applied.png[Chart with filter applied]

To remove a filter from the chart, click the *x* icon on the filter tile.

image::edit-axis-filter-remove.png[Remove filter from a chart]

[#conditional-formatting]
== Apply conditional formatting

To apply conditional formatting to the axis (in this example, _Total Sales_), follow these steps:

. Click the *Conditional formatting* option in the axis menu.
+
image::edit-axis-conditional-formatting.png[Add conditional formatting]

. The *Conditional formatting* window modal appears.
+
image::edit-axis-conditional-formatting-1.png[Conditional formatting interface]

. In the window modal, click *+ add formatting*.
+
image::edit-axis-conditional-formatting-2.png[Add a format]

. Select the conditional range.
+
The text area on the left specifies the lower limit of the condition, so the condition applies to all values that are greater or equal to it.
And the text area on the right specifies the upper limit of the condition, so the condition applies to all lower values.

 ** To show values with a lower limit, enter a value in the left text box.
 ** To show values with an upper limit, enter a value in the right text box.
 ** To show values in a specified range, enter the appropriate values in both text boxes.

+
Here, we apply conditional formatting to values between `5,500,000` and `8,000,000`.
+
image::edit-axis-conditional-formatting-3.png[Add conditional format range]

. To specify a different color of the conditional format, select the new color from the color selector.
+
This option draws upper and lower limit lines on the chart, and colors the chart elements that meet the conditional requirements.
+
image::edit-axis-conditional-formatting-4.png[Change conditional format color]
+
Alternatively, you can place a range band on the chart.
Select the *Fill chart* option.
+
image::edit-axis-conditional-formatting-8.png[Add conditional format band]

. To add another condition, click *+add formatting*.
+
image::edit-axis-conditional-formatting-5.png[Add another conditional format]

. To remove a defined conditional format, click the delete icon (*x*) next to its definition.
+
image::edit-axis-conditional-formatting-6.png[Remove conditional format]

. Click *Done*.
+
image::edit-axis-conditional-formatting-7.png[Complete conditional format]

Here, you can see a chart that highlights elements with conditional  formatting on some elements.
You can also see how the same chart appears with a background chart band.

image::edit-axis-conditional-formatting-applied-comparison.png[Conditional formatting applied, two options]

[#sort]
== Change the Sort

To change the sorting of a measurement on an axis, click the *Sort* option in the axis menu, and select an alternative from the list of options: _Ascending_ or _Descending_.

image::edit-axis-sort.png[Change axis sort]

Here, you can compare the original chart that was not sorted on the _Total Sales_ axis with the chart that uses descending sort.

image::edit-axis-sort-applied.png[Compare unsorted chart and chart sorted in Descending order]

[#position]
== Change the position of the axis

It is generally easier to interpret a chart if axes that use the same units of measurement or scale appear on the same side of the chart.
In our example, we can best visualize _Item Cost_ and _Item Price_ on the same side of chart.

To change the position of an axis, select the *Position* option in the axis menu, and then select an alternative from the list of options: _Left_ or _Right_.

Here, we move the _Item Price_ axis from the right side of the chart to the left side.

image::edit-axis-position.png[Change axis position]

You can compare the original chart with the one where the _Total Sales_ axis is on the right, while _Item Cost_ and _Item Price_ both appear on the left.

image::edit-axis-position-applied.png[Compare charts with different position assignments]

[#grouping]
== Change the Grouping

When two axis use the same unit of measure and a similar scale, we can group them together.

To change the grouping on an axis, click the *Group* option in the axis menu, and select an alternative from the list of options, which are the measurements on the other axes.

Here, we change the _Item Price_ axis by grouping it with _Item Cost_.

image::edit-axis-group.png[Group two axes]

Compare the original chart with one that groups _Item Price_ and _Item Cost_ as _Item Price & Item Cost_.
The chart looks cleaner, and clearly communicates the distinct information on each of the two measurements.

image::edit-axis-group-applied.png[Compare ungrouped chart and chart that groups similar measures]

Notice that the *Customize* menu shows a linkage between the two grouped axes.

image::edit-axis-group-menu.png[Grouped axes]

[#rename]
== Rename the axis

You can always rename an axis for clarity, brevity, format, and so on.

In our example, it makes sense to rename the axis created from grouping as _Item Price & Item Cost_ to something shorter, like _Item Price and Cost_.

To rename an axis, select the *Rename* option in the axis menu, type the new name, and either click out or hit *Enter/Return* on your keyboard.

image::edit-axis-rename.png[Rename axis]

[#edit]
== Edit the axis

When you choose to edit the axis, you get the comprehensive view of everything that can be changed on the axis: you can *Configure* the axis name, position (left or right), and the minimum and maximum values, and you can *Format* the category of the column, its units, and the representation of negative values.

image::edit-axis-options.gif[Edit the axis]

To edit this axis (in this example, _Item Price_), follow these steps:

. Click the *Item Price* axis.
. In the drop-down, select *Edit*.
. The *Edit Axis* menu appears.
. In the *Edit Axis* menu, make the changes to the axis configuration and number format:

Configure::
Name::: Change the name of the axis. Also see <<rename,Rename the axis>>.
Position::: Change the position of the axis relative to the chart. The options are _Right_ and _Left_. Also see <<position,Change the position of the axis>>.
Min::: Change the minimum value on the axis. For example, most charts default to 0-based axis representation for numerical values; this setting overrides it.
Max::: Change the maximum value on the axis. Similar to _Min_ limit.
Format::
Category::: This specifies the format of the axis measurements. Options include _Number_, _Percentage_, and _Currency_.
Unit::: Unit choice specifies the representation of numbers on the axis. Options include _Auto_ (ThoughtSpot uses abbreviations for really large numbers only), _None_, _Thousand (K)_, _Million (M)_, _Billion (B)_, and _Trillion (T)_.
Negative values::: Specify the representation of negative numbers in one of these formats: _-1234_, _1234-_, or _(1234)_.+++</dlentry>++++++</dlentry>+++

[#remove]
== Remove the axis

Removing the axis removes the data from the display, but not from the Answer entirely.
Instead, the column that the axis represents appears in the *Not visualized* section of the *Customize* menu.

image::remove-axis.gif[Remove the axis]

To remove an axis (in this example, _Item Price_), follow these steps:

. Click the *Item Price* axis.
. In the drop-down, select *x Remove*.
. The *Customize* menu appears.
+
Notice that the *Item Price* _axis_ and the corresponding data no longer appear on the visual.
However, the *Item Price* _column_ appears in the *Not visualized* section of the *Customize* menu.
