software/modules/docs/pages/chart-types.adoc, before:

= Chart types
:last_updated: 06/21/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

ThoughtSpot supports the following chart types:


[width=“100%” grid=“none”]
|===
a| image::chart-column.png[link="chart-column.html"]   a| image::chart-column-stacked.png[link="chart-column-stacked.html"] a| image::chart-bar.png[link="chart-bar.html"] a| image::chart-bar-stacked.png[link="chart-bar-stacked.html"] a| image::chart-line.png[link="chart-line.html"] a| image::chart-pie.png[link="chart-pie.adoc"]
a| xref:docs:chart-column.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-column-stacked.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-bar.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-bar-stacked.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-line.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-pie.adoc[]
a| a| a| a| a| a|
a| image::chart-area.png[link="chart-area.html"] a| image::chart-area-stacked.png[link="chart-area-stacked.html"] a| image::chart-scatter.png[link="chart-scatter.html"] a| image::chart-bubble.png[link="chart-bubble.html"] a| image::chart-pareto.png[link="chart-pareto.html"] a| image::chart-waterfall.png[link="chart-waterfall.html"]
a| xref:docs:chart-area.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-area-stacked.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-scatter.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-bubble.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-pareto.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-waterfall.adoc[]
a| a| a| a| a| a|
a| image::chart-treemap.png[link="chart-treemap.html"] a| image::chart-heatmap.png[link="chart-heatmap.html"] a| image::chart-line-column.png[link="chart-line-column.html"] a| image::chart-line-column-stacked.png[link="chart-line-column-stacked.html"]  a| image::chart-funnel.png[link="chart-funnel.html"] a| image::chart-geo-area.png[link="chart-geo-area.html"]
a| xref:docs:chart-treemap.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-heatmap.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-line-column.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-line-column-stacked.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-funnel.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-geo-area.adoc[]
a| a| a| a| a| a|
a| image::chart-geo-bubble.png[link="chart-geo-bubble.html"] a| image::chart-geo-heatmap.png[link="chart-geo-heatmap.html"] a| image::chart-pivot-table.png[link="chart-pivot-table.html"] a| image::chart-sankey.png[link="chart-sankey.html"]  a| image::chart-radar.png[link="chart-radar.html"] a| image::chart-candlestick.png[link="chart-candlestick.html"]
a| xref:docs:chart-geo-bubble.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-geo-heatmap.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-pivot-table.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-sankey.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-radar.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-candlestick.adoc[]
|===

Commit message:

SCAL-79999 (1)changing file names for charts in search, charts, formulas, and pinboards
Signed-off-by: Roza Leyderman <roza.leyderman@thoughtspot.com>

software/modules/docs/pages/chart-types.adoc, after:

= Chart types
:last_updated: 06/21/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

In addition to search results generated as xref:docs:chart-table.adoc[tables], ThoughtSpot supports many chart types.

To switch between tables and charts, toggle between the table view or chart view: image:changeview-chartortable.png[].

To change the chart type, click the *Change visualization* icon image:icon-chart-type-10px.png[] to see the following catalog of charts.

[width=“100%” grid=“none”]
|===
a| image::chart-column.png[link="chart-column.html"]   a| image::chart-column-stacked.png[link="chart-column-stacked.html"] a| image::chart-bar.png[link="chart-bar.html"] a| image::chart-bar-stacked.png[link="chart-bar-stacked.html"] a| image::chart-line.png[link="chart-line.html"] a| image::chart-pie.png[link="chart-pie.adoc"]
a| xref:docs:chart-column.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-column-stacked.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-bar.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-bar-stacked.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-line.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-pie.adoc[]
a| a| a| a| a| a|
a| image::chart-area.png[link="chart-area.html"] a| image::chart-area-stacked.png[link="chart-area-stacked.html"] a| image::chart-scatter.png[link="chart-scatter.html"] a| image::chart-bubble.png[link="chart-bubble.html"] a| image::chart-pareto.png[link="chart-pareto.html"] a| image::chart-waterfall.png[link="chart-waterfall.html"]
a| xref:docs:chart-area.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-area-stacked.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-scatter.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-bubble.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-pareto.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-waterfall.adoc[]
a| a| a| a| a| a|
a| image::chart-treemap.png[link="chart-treemap.html"] a| image::chart-heatmap.png[link="chart-heatmap.html"] a| image::chart-line-column.png[link="chart-line-column.html"] a| image::chart-line-column-stacked.png[link="chart-line-column-stacked.html"]  a| image::chart-funnel.png[link="chart-funnel.html"] a| image::chart-geo-area.png[link="chart-geo-area.html"]
a| xref:docs:chart-treemap.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-heatmap.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-line-column.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-line-column-stacked.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-funnel.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-geo-area.adoc[]
a| a| a| a| a| a|
a| image::chart-geo-bubble.png[link="chart-geo-bubble.html"] a| image::chart-geo-heatmap.png[link="chart-geo-heatmap.html"] a| image::chart-pivot-table.png[link="chart-pivot-table.html"] a| image::chart-sankey.png[link="chart-sankey.html"]  a| image::chart-radar.png[link="chart-radar.html"] a| image::chart-candlestick.png[link="chart-candlestick.html"]
a| xref:docs:chart-geo-bubble.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-geo-heatmap.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-pivot-table.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-sankey.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-radar.adoc[] a| xref:docs:chart-candlestick.adoc[]
|===
