software/modules/docs/pages/chart-bubble.adoc, before:

= Bubble charts
:last_updated: 01/10/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

The bubble chart is a variation of the scatter chart, and its data points appear as bubbles. Your search must have at least one attribute and two measures to generate a bubble chart.

The bubble chart displays three to five dimensions or measures of data. In addition to the traditional X and Y axis, the the xref:#size[size] of the bubble represents a measurement. Bubble charts can show two more attributes, when you xref:#slice[slice] and/or xref:#slice-color[slice by color].

image::bubble_chart_example.png[Basic Bubble chart]

[#size]
== Bubble size
The size of each bubble depends on the measure you choose under *Edit chart* image:icon-gear-10px.png[edit chart icon].

image::bubble_chart_size.png[]

[#slice]
[#slice-color]
== Slice and slice by color

This chart type lets you *slice* and xref:drag-and-drop.adoc#slice-with-color[slice with color].
You can also *slice* xref:chart-scatter.adoc[scatter charts].

Slicing helps you to break up data based on a specific column. In the following illustration, we sliced the chart by `store type`. We also used `store region` to slice by color.
If you hover over a data point, you can see what store type and store region it represents. Here, we have a `large` store in the `west` region:

image::bubble-chart-slice.png[Bubble chart - slice]

Commit message:

chart-bubble redirect
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/docs/pages/chart-bubble.adoc, after:

= Bubble charts
:last_updated: 01/10/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:
:redirect_from: /end-user/search/about-bubble-charts.html

The bubble chart is a variation of the scatter chart, and its data points appear as bubbles. Your search must have at least one attribute and two measures to generate a bubble chart.

The bubble chart displays three to five dimensions or measures of data. In addition to the traditional X and Y axis, the the xref:size[size] of the bubble represents a measurement. Bubble charts can show two more attributes, when you xref:slice[slice] and/or xref:slice-color[slice by color].

image::bubble_chart_example.png[Basic Bubble chart]

[#size]
== Bubble size
The size of each bubble depends on the measure you choose under *Edit chart* image:icon-gear-10px.png[edit chart icon].

image::bubble_chart_size.png[]

[#slice]
[#slice-color]
== Slice and slice by color

This chart type lets you *slice* and xref:drag-and-drop.adoc#slice-with-color[slice with color].
You can also *slice* xref:chart-scatter.adoc[scatter charts].

Slicing helps you to break up data based on a specific column. In the following illustration, we sliced the chart by `store type`. We also used `store region` to slice by color.
If you hover over a data point, you can see what store type and store region it represents. Here, we have a `large` store in the `west` region:

image::bubble-chart-slice.png[Bubble chart - slice]
