software/modules/docs/pages/create-aggregated-worksheet.adoc, before:

'''

title: [Save a search as a view]

last_updated: 11/2/2018 summary: "If you want to search on top of another search, try saving your search as a view.
Then, you can use the saved view as a data source for a new search." sidebar: mydoc_sidebar permalink: /:collection/:path.html -- This procedure walks you through creating a view from a search.
To create a view from a search:

. Start a new search, or edit an existing visualization from a pinboard.
+
Any filters or aggregations created during this search will be reflected in the view.

. Make any changes to the visualization that you want in your saved view (change aggregation level, filters, etc.)
. Click the ellipses icon  image:{{ site.baseurl }}/images/icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon], and *Save as view*.
+
image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/save_as_view.png[]

. Give the view a name and save it.
+
image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/save_view_dialog.png[]

. link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/data-modeling/create-new-relationship.html[Link] your view to any other data source, or link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/loading/constraints.html[define joins].

At this point the view has been saved, but you may also want to link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/loading/materialized-views.html[materialize the view], to improve its performance when searching.

Commit message:

corrected  links and images in Save a search as a View
Signed-off-by: naomi.lattanzi <naomi.lattanzi@thoughtspot.com>

software/modules/docs/pages/create-aggregated-worksheet.adoc, after:

'''

= Save a search as a view

:last_updated: 11/2/2018

If you want to search on top of another search, try saving your search as a view.
Then, you can use the saved view as a data source for a new search.

This procedure walks you through creating a view from a search.
To create a view from a search:

. Start a new search, or edit an existing visualization from a pinboard.
+
Any filters or aggregations created during this search will be reflected in the view.

. Make any changes to the visualization that you want in your saved view (change aggregation level, filters, etc.)
. Click the ellipses icon  image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon], and *Save as view*.
+
image::save_as_view.png[]

. Give the view a name and save it.
+
image::save_view_dialog.png[]

. xref:create-new-relationship.adoc[Link] your view to any other data source, or xref:constraints.adoc[define joins].

At this point the view has been saved, but you may also want to xref:materialized-views.adoc[materialize the view], to improve its performance when searching.
