software/modules/docs/pages/customize-footer-text.adoc, before:

= Change the footer text
:last_updated: 2/24/2020
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

You can customize ThoughtSpot's footer test to add a company-specific message.

The ThoughtSpot footer appears by default in the ThoughtSpot application.
It also appears with an embed application that encompasses an individual pinboard or a full application.
In embed applications that have a single visualization, you can ask your ThoughtSpot support engineer to disable the footer.

While you cannot remove the footer, you can customize it by adding a company-specific message.

== Add a message to the application footer

You can change the footer text to reflect your company's message.
To change the footer text:

. Navigate to the Admin Console by clicking on the *Admin* tab from the top navigation bar.
Select *Style Customization* from the side navigation bar that appears.
+ If the Style Customization option is not available, contact https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support^] to enable it.
. Click the text box under *Footer text*.
. Enter your new text message.
+
image::style-newfootertext.png[Edit the footer text]
+
Your new text message will automatically be displayed in the footer.
+
image::style-footertext.png[Footer text display]

. Click the *Reset* button on the upper right hand side of the section if you would like to bring back the default footer text.

Commit message:

customize-footer redirect
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/docs/pages/customize-footer-text.adoc, after:

= Change the footer text
:last_updated: 2/24/2020
:linkattrs:
:experimental:
:redirect_from: /app-integrate/custom-branding/change-the-footer-text.html

You can customize ThoughtSpot's footer test to add a company-specific message.

The ThoughtSpot footer appears by default in the ThoughtSpot application.
It also appears with an embed application that encompasses an individual pinboard or a full application.
In embed applications that have a single visualization, you can ask your ThoughtSpot support engineer to disable the footer.

While you cannot remove the footer, you can customize it by adding a company-specific message.

== Add a message to the application footer

You can change the footer text to reflect your company's message.
To change the footer text:

. Navigate to the Admin Console by clicking on the *Admin* tab from the top navigation bar.
Select *Style Customization* from the side navigation bar that appears. +
If the Style Customization option is not available, contact https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support^] to enable it.
. Click the text box under *Footer text*.
. Enter your new text message.
+
image::style-newfootertext.png[Edit the footer text]
+
Your new text message will automatically be displayed in the footer.
+
image::style-footertext.png[Footer text display]

. Click the *Reset* button on the upper right hand side of the section if you would like to bring back the default footer text.
