software/modules/docs/pages/customize-logo.adoc, before:

= Upload application logos
:last_updated: 12/31/2020
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

You can replace the ThoughtSpot logo, wherever it appears in the ThoughtSpot web application, with your own company logo.

To upload your own default and wide application logos:

. Navigate to the Admin Console by clicking on the *Admin* tab from the top navigation bar.
Select *Style Customization* from the side navigation bar that appears.
+ If the Style Customization option is not available, contact https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support^] to enable it.
. Click the default icon under *Application Logo (Default)* to browse for and select your own default logo.
+
image::style-applogo.png[Default application logo]
+
Your icon image should be a square, and the recommended size is 140px by 140px.
The accepted file formats are jpg, jpeg, and png.
This logo will appear on the top left of the interface.

. Click the wide icon under *Application Logo (Wide)* to browse for and select your own wide logo.
+
image::style-widelogo.png[Wide application logo]
+
The recommended size is 330px by 100px.
The accepted file formats are jpg, jpeg, and png.
This logo appears on the login screen.
You may need to test a few versions to make sure it appears correctly.

. Click the *Reset* button on the upper right hand side of the sections if you would like to bring back the default logos.

Commit message:

customize-logo redirect
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/docs/pages/customize-logo.adoc, after:

= Upload application logos
:last_updated: 12/31/2020
:linkattrs:
:experimental:
:redirect_from: /app-integrate/custom-branding/upload-application-logos.html

You can replace the ThoughtSpot logo, wherever it appears in the ThoughtSpot web application, with your own company logo.

To upload your own default and wide application logos:

. Navigate to the Admin Console by clicking on the *Admin* tab from the top navigation bar.
Select *Style Customization* from the side navigation bar that appears. +
If the Style Customization option is not available, contact https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support^] to enable it.
. Click the default icon under *Application Logo (Default)* to browse for and select your own default logo.
+
image::style-applogo.png[Default application logo]
+
Your icon image should be a square, and the recommended size is 140px by 140px.
The accepted file formats are jpg, jpeg, and png.
This logo will appear on the top left of the interface.

. Click the wide icon under *Application Logo (Wide)* to browse for and select your own wide logo.
+
image::style-widelogo.png[Wide application logo]
+
The recommended size is 330px by 100px.
The accepted file formats are jpg, jpeg, and png.
This logo appears on the login screen.
You may need to test a few versions to make sure it appears correctly.

. Click the *Reset* button on the upper right hand side of the sections if you would like to bring back the default logos.
