software/modules/docs/pages/data-api-push.adoc, before:

= Use the Data Push API
:last_updated: 11/18/2019
:experimental:
:linkattrs:

This procedure shows how to use the Data Push API to send data from ThoughtSpot to another application.

include::partial$customize-actions-menu.adoc[]

== Sample application

Here is a sample application you can use to try out the Data Push API:

[source,html]
----
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
<script src="https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/angularjs/1.6.9/angular.min.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="api/api.js"></script>
<body>
    <script>

        var app = angular.module("latestData", []);
        app.controller("dataCtrl", ['$scope', '$window', function($scope, $window) {

            $scope.currentData=undefined;
            $scope.showData=false;
            $scope.displayData = function() {
                $scope.showData = true;
            };
            function currentDataCallback(event) {
                $scope.currentData = event;
            }
            $window.onload = function(){
                $window.thoughtspot.getCurrentData(currentDataCallback);
            };

        }]);
    </script>
    <div ng-app ="latestData" ng-controller="dataCtrl">
        <button class="get-data" ng-click="displayData()">Click here for latest exported data</button>
        <div class="display-data" ng-if="showData"> {{currentData}}</div>
    </div>
</body>
</html>
----

Commit message:

data-api-push redirect
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/docs/pages/data-api-push.adoc, after:

= Use the Data Push API
:last_updated: 11/18/2019
:experimental:
:linkattrs:
:redirect_from: /app-integrate/data-api/push-data-to-external-app.html

This procedure shows how to use the Data Push API to send data from ThoughtSpot to another application.

include::partial$customize-actions-menu.adoc[]

== Sample application

Here is a sample application you can use to try out the Data Push API:

[source,html]
----
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
<script src="https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/angularjs/1.6.9/angular.min.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="api/api.js"></script>
<body>
    <script>

        var app = angular.module("latestData", []);
        app.controller("dataCtrl", ['$scope', '$window', function($scope, $window) {

            $scope.currentData=undefined;
            $scope.showData=false;
            $scope.displayData = function() {
                $scope.showData = true;
            };
            function currentDataCallback(event) {
                $scope.currentData = event;
            }
            $window.onload = function(){
                $window.thoughtspot.getCurrentData(currentDataCallback);
            };

        }]);
    </script>
    <div ng-app ="latestData" ng-controller="dataCtrl">
        <button class="get-data" ng-click="displayData()">Click here for latest exported data</button>
        <div class="display-data" ng-if="showData"> {{currentData}}</div>
    </div>
</body>
</html>
----
