software/modules/docs/pages/data-engineer.adoc, before:

= Data Engineer
:last_updated: 7/20/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

Your role is to establish connections to data. Here is how you can connect to all your data.
The following list provides information about connecting to your data in supported data warehouses.

Direct Connections with Embrace::
[%collapsible]
====
Snowflake;;
- xref:embrace-snowflake.adoc[Overview]
- xref:embrace-snowflake-add.adoc[Add connection]
- xref:embrace-snowflake-modify.adoc[Edit connection]
- xref:embrace-snowflake-modify.adoc#embrace-snowflake-remap[Remap connection]
- xref:embrace-snowflake-modify.adoc#deleting-a-table-from-a-snowflake-connection[Delete a table]
- xref:embrace-snowflake-modify.adoc#deleting-a-table-with-dependent-objects[Delete a table with object dependencies]
- xref:embrace-snowflake-modify.adoc#delete-snowflake-connection[Delete connection]
- xref:embrace-snowflake-best.adoc[Best practices]
- xref:embrace-snowflake-reference.adoc[Connection reference]
Amazon Redshift;;
- xref:embrace-redshift.adoc[Overview]
- xref:embrace-redshift-add.adoc[Add connection]
- xref:embrace-redshift-modify.adoc[Edit connection]
- xref:embrace-redshift-modify.adoc#redshift-remap-connection[Remap connection]
- xref:embrace-redshift-modify.adoc#deleting-a-table-from-a-redshift-connection[Delete a table]
- xref:embrace-redshift-modify.adoc#deleting-a-table-with-dependent-objects[Delete a table with object dependencies]
- xref:embrace-redshift-modify.adoc#redshift-delete-connection[Delete connection]
- xref:embrace-redshift-reference.adoc[Connection reference]
 Google BigQuery;;
- xref:embrace-gbq.adoc[Overview]
- xref:embrace-gbq-add.adoc[Add connection]
- xref:embrace-gbq-modify.adoc[Edit connection]
- xref:embrace-gbq-modify.adoc#gbq-remap[Remap connection]
- xref:embrace-gbq-modify.adoc#deleting-a-table-from-a-bigquery-connection[Delete a table]
- xref:embrace-gbq-modify.adoc#deleting-a-table-with-dependent-objects[Delete a table with object dependencies]
- xref:embrace-gbq-modify.adoc#gbq-delete-connection[Delete connection]
- xref:embrace-gbq-reference.adoc[Connection reference]
 Azure Synapse;;
- xref:embrace-synapse.adoc[Overview]
- xref:embrace-synapse-add.adoc[Add connection]
- xref:embrace-synapse-modify.adoc[Edit connection]
- xref:embrace-synapse-modify.adoc#synapse-remap[Remap connection]
- xref:embrace-synapse-modify.adoc#deleting-a-table-from-a-synapse-connection[Delete a table]
- xref:embrace-synapse-modify.adoc#deleting-a-table-with-dependent-objects[Delete a table with object dependencies]
- xref:embrace-synapse-modify.adoc#synapse-delete-connection[Delete connection]
- xref:embrace-synapse-reference.adoc[Connection reference]
Teradata;;
- xref:embrace-teradata.adoc[Overview]
- xref:embrace-teradata-add.adoc[Add connection]
- xref:embrace-teradata-modify.adoc[Edit connection]
- xref:embrace-teradata-modify.adoc#teradata-remap-connection[Remap connection]
- xref:embrace-teradata-modify.adoc#deleting-a-table-from-a-teradata-connection[Delete a table]
- xref:embrace-teradata-modify.adoc#deleting-a-table-with-dependent-objects[Delete a table with object dependencies]
- xref:embrace-teradata-modify.adoc#teradata-delete-connection[Delete connection]
- xref:embrace-teradata-reference.adoc[Connection reference]
SAP HANA;;
- xref:embrace-hana.adoc[Overview]
- xref:embrace-hana-add.adoc[Add connection]
- xref:embrace-hana-modify.adoc[Edit connection]
- xref:embrace-hana-modify.adoc#hana-remap-connection[Remap connection]
- xref:embrace-hana-modify.adoc#deleting-a-table-from-a-SAP-HANA-connection[Delete a table]
- xref:embrace-hana-modify.adoc#deleting-a-table-with-dependent-objects[Delete a table with object dependencies]
- xref:embrace-hana-modify.adoc#hana-delete-connection[Delete connection]
- xref:embrace-hana-reference.adoc[Connection reference]
////
Oracle ADW;;
- xref:.adocOverview
- xref:.adocAdd connection
- xref:.adocEdit connection
- xref:.adocRemap connection
- xref:.adocDelete a table
- xref:.adocDelete a table with object dependencies
- xref:.adocDelete connection
- xref:.adocConnection reference

Starburst;;
- xref:.adocOverview
- xref:.adocAdd connection
- xref:.adocEdit connection
- xref:.adocRemap connection
- xref:.adocDelete a table
- xref:.adocDelete a table with object dependencies
- xref:.adocDelete connection
- xref:.adocConnection reference
 Databricks;;
- xref:.adocOverview
- xref:.adocAdd connection
- xref:.adocEdit connection
- xref:.adocRemap connection
- xref:.adocDelete a table
- xref:.adocDelete a table with object dependencies
- xref:.adocDelete connection
- xref:.adocConnection reference
////
====

Getting data into Falcon with xref:dataflow.adoc[DataFlow]::
DataFlow database connections;;
[%collapsible]
====
include::partial$dataflow-databases-list.adoc[]
====
Dataflow file connections;;
[%collapsible]
====
include::partial$dataflow-filesystems-list.adoc[]
====
Dataflow applications;;
[%collapsible]
====
include::partial$dataflow-applications-list.adoc[]
====
////
Search Assist::
See how ThoughtSpot Search gives you insights into your own data.

Onboarding for Analysts::
Get a comprehensive look at how to create modern and dynamic dashboards for your organization.

Scriptability::
Use SpotApps to export Worksheets, Pinboards, and Answers in a human-readable format.

SpotApp Templates::
Use SpotApp templates to gain insights into your Salesforce, accounts receivable, or procurement instances.

ThoughtSpot Modeling Language::
Modify a Worksheet, Pinboard, or Answer in a flat-file format.
////
////
Getting started for Business users::
Get a quick overview of how ThoughtSpot can support you.
+
See xref:getting-started.adoc[].

Home page::
This is where you get direct access to exisiting Answers, Pinboards, and visualizations.

Pinboards and Answers::
Quick tips on how you can use and customize Pinboards and Charts.
+
See xref:charts.adoc[], xref:chart-types.adoc[], xref:chart-change.adoc[], and xref:pinboards.adoc[].

ThoughtSpot Search::
Explore our flagship Search functionality.
+
See xref:search.adoc[].
////
////
Search Assist::
See how ThoughtSpot Search Assist gives you insights into your own data.
////

Mobile App::
Access your ThoughtSpot cluster to search Answers and Pinboards, and create Pinboards.
+
See xref:mobile.adoc[].


////
from old user guide


* *xref:navigating-thoughtspot.adoc[Finding your way around]* +
 To make navigation easy, we organized ThoughtSpot into several sections.
You can see them on the menu bar.
* *xref:user-profile.adoc[About the user profile]* +
 The user icon lets you view your profile, or sign out of ThoughtSpot.
* *xref:privileges-end-user.adoc[Understanding privileges]* +
 Your privileges determine the things you can do.
ThoughtSpot sets privileges at the group level.
* *xref:tags.adoc[About tags]* +
 You can create tags to make it easier for people to find data sources and pinboards.

* xref:search.adoc[Use search]
* xref:answers.adoc[Work with Answers]
* xref:filters.adoc[Work with filters]
* xref:charts.adoc[Work with charts]
* xref:formulas.adoc[Work with formulas]
* xref:pinboards.adoc[Use pinboards]
* xref:answer-explorer.adoc[Answer Explorer]
* xref:r-thoughtspot.adoc[About R in ThoughtSpot]
* xref:spotiq.adoc[SpotIQ]
* xref:data-sources.adoc[Work with data]
* xref:help-center.adoc[]
////

Commit message:

adding a few redirect links, updating analyst, data engineer, and it ops persona landing pages
Signed-off-by: Teresa Killmond <teresa.killmond@thoughtspot.com>

software/modules/docs/pages/data-engineer.adoc, after:

= Data Engineer
:last_updated: 7/20/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

Your role is to establish connections to data. Here is how you can connect to all your data.
The following list provides information about connecting to your data in supported data warehouses.

Direct Connections with Embrace::
[%collapsible]
====
Snowflake;;
- xref:embrace-snowflake.adoc[Overview]
- xref:embrace-snowflake-add.adoc[Add connection]
- xref:embrace-snowflake-modify.adoc[Edit connection]
- xref:embrace-snowflake-modify.adoc#embrace-snowflake-remap[Remap connection]
- xref:embrace-snowflake-modify.adoc#deleting-a-table-from-a-snowflake-connection[Delete a table]
- xref:embrace-snowflake-modify.adoc#deleting-a-table-with-dependent-objects[Delete a table with object dependencies]
- xref:embrace-snowflake-modify.adoc#delete-snowflake-connection[Delete connection]
- xref:embrace-snowflake-best.adoc[Best practices]
- xref:embrace-snowflake-reference.adoc[Connection reference]
Amazon Redshift;;
- xref:embrace-redshift.adoc[Overview]
- xref:embrace-redshift-add.adoc[Add connection]
- xref:embrace-redshift-modify.adoc[Edit connection]
- xref:embrace-redshift-modify.adoc#redshift-remap-connection[Remap connection]
- xref:embrace-redshift-modify.adoc#deleting-a-table-from-a-redshift-connection[Delete a table]
- xref:embrace-redshift-modify.adoc#deleting-a-table-with-dependent-objects[Delete a table with object dependencies]
- xref:embrace-redshift-modify.adoc#redshift-delete-connection[Delete connection]
- xref:embrace-redshift-reference.adoc[Connection reference]
 Google BigQuery;;
- xref:embrace-gbq.adoc[Overview]
- xref:embrace-gbq-add.adoc[Add connection]
- xref:embrace-gbq-modify.adoc[Edit connection]
- xref:embrace-gbq-modify.adoc#gbq-remap[Remap connection]
- xref:embrace-gbq-modify.adoc#deleting-a-table-from-a-bigquery-connection[Delete a table]
- xref:embrace-gbq-modify.adoc#deleting-a-table-with-dependent-objects[Delete a table with object dependencies]
- xref:embrace-gbq-modify.adoc#gbq-delete-connection[Delete connection]
- xref:embrace-gbq-reference.adoc[Connection reference]
 Azure Synapse;;
- xref:embrace-synapse.adoc[Overview]
- xref:embrace-synapse-add.adoc[Add connection]
- xref:embrace-synapse-modify.adoc[Edit connection]
- xref:embrace-synapse-modify.adoc#synapse-remap[Remap connection]
- xref:embrace-synapse-modify.adoc#deleting-a-table-from-a-synapse-connection[Delete a table]
- xref:embrace-synapse-modify.adoc#deleting-a-table-with-dependent-objects[Delete a table with object dependencies]
- xref:embrace-synapse-modify.adoc#synapse-delete-connection[Delete connection]
- xref:embrace-synapse-reference.adoc[Connection reference]
Teradata;;
- xref:embrace-teradata.adoc[Overview]
- xref:embrace-teradata-add.adoc[Add connection]
- xref:embrace-teradata-modify.adoc[Edit connection]
- xref:embrace-teradata-modify.adoc#teradata-remap-connection[Remap connection]
- xref:embrace-teradata-modify.adoc#deleting-a-table-from-a-teradata-connection[Delete a table]
- xref:embrace-teradata-modify.adoc#deleting-a-table-with-dependent-objects[Delete a table with object dependencies]
- xref:embrace-teradata-modify.adoc#teradata-delete-connection[Delete connection]
- xref:embrace-teradata-reference.adoc[Connection reference]
SAP HANA;;
- xref:embrace-hana.adoc[Overview]
- xref:embrace-hana-add.adoc[Add connection]
- xref:embrace-hana-modify.adoc[Edit connection]
- xref:embrace-hana-modify.adoc#hana-remap-connection[Remap connection]
- xref:embrace-hana-modify.adoc#deleting-a-table-from-a-SAP-HANA-connection[Delete a table]
- xref:embrace-hana-modify.adoc#deleting-a-table-with-dependent-objects[Delete a table with object dependencies]
- xref:embrace-hana-modify.adoc#hana-delete-connection[Delete connection]
- xref:embrace-hana-reference.adoc[Connection reference]
////
Oracle ADW;;
- xref:.adocOverview
- xref:.adocAdd connection
- xref:.adocEdit connection
- xref:.adocRemap connection
- xref:.adocDelete a table
- xref:.adocDelete a table with object dependencies
- xref:.adocDelete connection
- xref:.adocConnection reference

Starburst;;
- xref:.adocOverview
- xref:.adocAdd connection
- xref:.adocEdit connection
- xref:.adocRemap connection
- xref:.adocDelete a table
- xref:.adocDelete a table with object dependencies
- xref:.adocDelete connection
- xref:.adocConnection reference
 Databricks;;
- xref:.adocOverview
- xref:.adocAdd connection
- xref:.adocEdit connection
- xref:.adocRemap connection
- xref:.adocDelete a table
- xref:.adocDelete a table with object dependencies
- xref:.adocDelete connection
- xref:.adocConnection reference
////
====

Getting data into Falcon with xref:dataflow.adoc[DataFlow]::
DataFlow database connections;;
[%collapsible]
====
include::partial$dataflow-databases-list.adoc[]
====
Dataflow file connections;;
[%collapsible]
====
include::partial$dataflow-filesystems-list.adoc[]
====
Dataflow applications;;
[%collapsible]
====
include::partial$dataflow-applications-list.adoc[]
====

xref:data-modeling.adoc[Data modeling]::
Modeling, tagging, and adding links between your data sources can make the data even easier to search.

xref:custom-calendar.adoc[]::
With a custom calendar, you can choose when the year, quarter, or week starts, and search using date-related keywords.

////
Search Assist::
See how ThoughtSpot Search gives you insights into your own data.

Onboarding for Analysts::
Get a comprehensive look at how to create modern and dynamic dashboards for your organization.

Scriptability::
Use SpotApps to export Worksheets, Pinboards, and Answers in a human-readable format.

SpotApp Templates::
Use SpotApp templates to gain insights into your Salesforce, accounts receivable, or procurement instances.

ThoughtSpot Modeling Language::
Modify a Worksheet, Pinboard, or Answer in a flat-file format.
////
////
Getting started for Business users::
Get a quick overview of how ThoughtSpot can support you.
+
See xref:getting-started.adoc[].

Home page::
This is where you get direct access to exisiting Answers, Pinboards, and visualizations.

Pinboards and Answers::
Quick tips on how you can use and customize Pinboards and Charts.
+
See xref:charts.adoc[], xref:chart-types.adoc[], xref:chart-change.adoc[], and xref:pinboards.adoc[].

ThoughtSpot Search::
Explore our flagship Search functionality.
+
See xref:search.adoc[].
////
////
Search Assist::
See how ThoughtSpot Search Assist gives you insights into your own data.
////

xref:mobile.adoc[Mobile app]::
Access your ThoughtSpot cluster on the ThoughtSpot mobile app to view and create Answers and Pinboards.


////
from old user guide


* *xref:navigating-thoughtspot.adoc[Finding your way around]* +
 To make navigation easy, we organized ThoughtSpot into several sections.
You can see them on the menu bar.
* *xref:user-profile.adoc[About the user profile]* +
 The user icon lets you view your profile, or sign out of ThoughtSpot.
* *xref:privileges-end-user.adoc[Understanding privileges]* +
 Your privileges determine the things you can do.
ThoughtSpot sets privileges at the group level.
* *xref:tags.adoc[About tags]* +
 You can create tags to make it easier for people to find data sources and pinboards.

* xref:search.adoc[Use search]
* xref:answers.adoc[Work with Answers]
* xref:filters.adoc[Work with filters]
* xref:charts.adoc[Work with charts]
* xref:formulas.adoc[Work with formulas]
* xref:pinboards.adoc[Use pinboards]
* xref:answer-explorer.adoc[Answer Explorer]
* xref:r-thoughtspot.adoc[About R in ThoughtSpot]
* xref:spotiq.adoc[SpotIQ]
* xref:data-sources.adoc[Work with data]
* xref:help-center.adoc[]
////
