software/modules/docs/pages/data-load-date-formats.adoc, before:

= Date and time formats reference
:last_updated: 12/31/2020
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

ThoughtSpot supports several date and time formats.

This is a reference for the date and time contexts and formats you can use with ThoughtSpot.
You define data formats in specific contexts and, depending on the context, your choices in data formatting differ.
You must understand date  and time when you load data in these contexts:

* using data upload from the browser
* through `tsload` command
* through an extract, transform, load (ETL) tool

Data loading formats do not change how data is displayed in tables and charts.

The context where you _can control_ date and time formats is data modeling.
Data modeling controls how data is displayed in search and their resulting answers.

== Data loading formats through tsload

When loading through the `tsload` command you must specify `date` and `timestamp` formats using the format specifications defined in the http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/strptime.3.html[`strptime` library function^].
Data is imported based on the timezone of the node from which `tsload` is run.

For `date` data types, the default format is `%Y%m%d`, which translates to `yearmonthday`  For example, `Dec 30th, 2001` is represented as `20011230`.
For `time` and `datetime` data types, the default is `%Y%m%d %H:%M:%S` which translates to `yearmonthday hour:minute:second`, for example, `Dec 30th, 2001 1:15:12` is represented as `20011230 01:15:12`.

== Data modeling formats for browser data upload

These date and time formats are supported in a CSV file when uploading through the browser.
You cannot specify the date format;
ThoughtSpot will pick the format that fits your data best:

include::partial$data-modeling-formats.adoc[]

== Data loading formats through an ETL tool

Data loads through ETL uses ODBC or JDBC connections.
After you extract the data from the source but before you load it into ThoughtSpot, you must transform any date or timestamp columns into a format that is valid for ThoughtSpot.
After the data transformation completes, there is no requirement for explicit data masking.
See the data integration guide for more information on loading data through ODBC and JDBC.

== Data modeling formats

A user with administrative rights can configure data modeling for data on one or all files.
You can set number, date, and currency display formats.
These formats define how these value types display in tables and charts.
See the Admin Guide for more information about data modeling settings.
The following format strings are available for use:

include::partial$data-modeling-strings.adoc[]

Commit message:

data-load-date-formats redirect
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/docs/pages/data-load-date-formats.adoc, after:

= Date and time formats reference
:last_updated: 12/31/2020
:linkattrs:
:experimental:
:redirect_from: /reference/date-formats-for-loading.html

ThoughtSpot supports several date and time formats.

This is a reference for the date and time contexts and formats you can use with ThoughtSpot.
You define data formats in specific contexts and, depending on the context, your choices in data formatting differ.
You must understand date  and time when you load data in these contexts:

* using data upload from the browser
* through `tsload` command
* through an extract, transform, load (ETL) tool

Data loading formats do not change how data is displayed in tables and charts.

The context where you _can control_ date and time formats is data modeling.
Data modeling controls how data is displayed in search and their resulting answers.

== Data loading formats through tsload

When loading through the `tsload` command you must specify `date` and `timestamp` formats using the format specifications defined in the http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/strptime.3.html[`strptime` library function^].
Data is imported based on the timezone of the node from which `tsload` is run.

For `date` data types, the default format is `%Y%m%d`, which translates to `yearmonthday`  For example, `Dec 30th, 2001` is represented as `20011230`.
For `time` and `datetime` data types, the default is `%Y%m%d %H:%M:%S` which translates to `yearmonthday hour:minute:second`, for example, `Dec 30th, 2001 1:15:12` is represented as `20011230 01:15:12`.

== Data modeling formats for browser data upload

These date and time formats are supported in a CSV file when uploading through the browser.
You cannot specify the date format;
ThoughtSpot will pick the format that fits your data best:

include::partial$data-modeling-formats.adoc[]

== Data loading formats through an ETL tool

Data loads through ETL uses ODBC or JDBC connections.
After you extract the data from the source but before you load it into ThoughtSpot, you must transform any date or timestamp columns into a format that is valid for ThoughtSpot.
After the data transformation completes, there is no requirement for explicit data masking.
See the data integration guide for more information on loading data through ODBC and JDBC.

== Data modeling formats

A user with administrative rights can configure data modeling for data on one or all files.
You can set number, date, and currency display formats.
These formats define how these value types display in tables and charts.
See the Admin Guide for more information about data modeling settings.
The following format strings are available for use:

include::partial$data-modeling-strings.adoc[]
