software/modules/docs/pages/dataflow-user-management.adoc, before:

= Manage DataFlow users
:last_updated: 06/24/2020




Learn how to add and manage users in DataFlow.

Note that you must have administrator privileges to perform these actions.

== Create a new user

. Click *Admin* on the top navigation bar.
. In the *User management* interface, click *Add user*.
+
image::dataflow-user-management-add-user.png[Add users]

. In the *Add user* interface, specify the following properties:
+
image::dataflow-user-add.png[Add a user to DataFlow]
+++<dlentry id="dataflow-user-prop-name">+++Name::::  Specify the name of the account holder.+++</dlentry>++++++<dlentry id="dataflow-user-prop-thoughtspot-user-id">+++ThoughtSpot user ID::::
Specify the user ID, or account.
Must match an existing account in ThoughtSpot.+++</dlentry>++++++<dlentry id="dataflow-user-prop-password">+++Password::::
Enter a password;
does not have to match password in ThoughtSpot.+++</dlentry>++++++<dlentry>+++Confirm password::::  Enter the combination of characters that matches the <<dataflow-user-prop-password,Password>>.+++</dlentry>++++++<dlentry id="dataflow-user-prop-email">+++Email::::
Specify the email of the account holder;
must be in whitelisted domain.+++</dlentry>++++++<dlentry id="dataflow-user-prop-admin">+++Admin user::::  Specify if this account has administrator privileges.+++</dlentry>+++

. Click *Add*.
+
You can now see the new user in the list of users.

== Change user properties

Follow these steps to make changes to an existing user account.

. Click *Admin* on the top navigation bar.
. In the *User management* interface, select the user you want to change.
+
image::dataflow-user-select.png[Select user to edit]

. In the *Edit user* interface, change any of the properties, and click *Update*.
 ** *Change name*: In this example, we changed the *Name* associated with the account.
+
image::dataflow-user-edit.png[Edit user in DataFlow]

 ** *Change password*: To change the  password for the account, enter the new password and confirm it.
 ** *Make admin*: To promote a regular user to administrator status, select the *Admin user* checkbox.
To demote an existing admin user to regular user status, unselect the *Admin user* checkbox.
+
image::dataflow-user-admin.png[Promote user to admin in DataFlow]

 ** *Disable user*: To disable a user, turn the toggle on.
To enable a user again, turn the toggle off.
+
image::dataflow-user-disable.png[Disable user in DataFlow]
+
A disabled user still appears in the list of users, with a *Disabled* tag.
+
image::dataflow-user-list-disabled.png[Disabled user in list of DataFlow users]

Commit message:

SCAL 79999: cleaned and added redirect to dataflow-user-management.adoc
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/docs/pages/dataflow-user-management.adoc, after:

= Manage DataFlow users
:last_updated: 06/24/2020
:experimental:
:linkattrs:
:redirect_from: /data-integrate/dataflow/dataflow-user-management.html



Learn how to add and manage users in DataFlow.

Note that you must have administrator privileges to perform these actions.

== Create a new user

. Click *Admin* on the top navigation bar.
. In the *User management* interface, click *Add user*.
+
image::dataflow-user-management-add-user.png[Add users]

. In the *Add user* interface, specify the following properties:
+
image::dataflow-user-add.png[Add a user to DataFlow]
[#dataflow-user-prop-name]
Name::  Specify the name of the account holder.
[#dataflow-user-prop-thoughtspot-user-id]
ThoughtSpot user ID::
Specify the user ID, or account.
Must match an existing account in ThoughtSpot.
[#dataflow-user-prop-password]
Password::
Enter a password;
does not have to match password in ThoughtSpot.
Confirm password::  Enter the combination of characters that matches the <<dataflow-user-prop-password,Password>>.
[#dataflow-user-prop-email]
Email::
Specify the email of the account holder;
must be in whitelisted domain.
[#dataflow-user-prop-admin]
Admin user::  Specify if this account has administrator privileges.

. Click *Add*.
+
You can now see the new user in the list of users.

== Change user properties

Follow these steps to make changes to an existing user account.

. Click *Admin* on the top navigation bar.
. In the *User management* interface, select the user you want to change.
+
image::dataflow-user-select.png[Select user to edit]

. In the *Edit user* interface, change any of the properties, and click *Update*.
 ** *Change name*: In this example, we changed the *Name* associated with the account.
+
image::dataflow-user-edit.png[Edit user in DataFlow]

 ** *Change password*: To change the  password for the account, enter the new password and confirm it.
 ** *Make admin*: To promote a regular user to administrator status, select the *Admin user* checkbox.
To demote an existing admin user to regular user status, unselect the *Admin user* checkbox.
+
image::dataflow-user-admin.png[Promote user to admin in DataFlow]

 ** *Disable user*: To disable a user, turn the toggle on.
To enable a user again, turn the toggle off.
+
image::dataflow-user-disable.png[Disable user in DataFlow]
+
A disabled user still appears in the list of users, with a *Disabled* tag.
+
image::dataflow-user-list-disabled.png[Disabled user in list of DataFlow users]
