software/modules/docs/pages/dataflow-sas-sync.adoc, before:

= Sync data through a SAS connection
:last_updated: 10/27/2020




After using ThoughtSpot DataFlow to establish a connection to a SAS database, you can create automatic data updates, to seamlessly refresh your data.

include::partial$sync-for-databases.adoc[]

. Specify the sync properties for SAS:
 ** xref:dataflow-sas-reference.adoc#dataflow-sas-sync-column-delimiter[Column delimiter] + Specify the column delimiter character.
 ** xref:dataflow-sas-reference.adoc#dataflow-sas-sync-enclosing-character[Enclosing character] + Specify if the text columns in the source data needs to be enclosed in quotes.
 ** xref:dataflow-sas-reference.adoc#dataflow-sas-sync-escape-character[Escape character] + Specify this if the text qualifier is mentioned.
This should be the character which escapes the text qualifier character in the source data.
 ** xref:dataflow-sas-reference.adoc#dataflow-sas-sync-ts-load-options[TS load options] + Specifies the parameters passed with the `tsload` command, in addition to the commands already included by the application.
The format for these parameters is: + ` --<param_1_name> <optional_param_1_value>` + ` --<param_2_name> <optional_param_2_value>`

+
See xref:dataflow-sas-reference.adoc#sync-properties[Sync properties] for details, defaults, and examples.
. Save your work by clicking *Save*.
+ Alternatively, click *Save and sync now* to save your work and sync data at the same time.

Commit message:

SCAL 79999: cleaned and added redirect to dataflow-sas-sync.adoc
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/docs/pages/dataflow-sas-sync.adoc, after:

= Sync data through a SAS connection
:last_updated: 10/27/2020
:experimental:
:linkattrs:
:redirect_from: /data-integrate/dataflow/dataflow-sas-sync.html



After using ThoughtSpot DataFlow to establish a connection to a SAS database, you can create automatic data updates, to seamlessly refresh your data.

include::partial$sync-for-databases.adoc[]

. Specify the sync properties for SAS:
 ** xref:dataflow-sas-reference.adoc#dataflow-sas-sync-column-delimiter[Column delimiter] +
  Specify the column delimiter character.
 ** xref:dataflow-sas-reference.adoc#dataflow-sas-sync-enclosing-character[Enclosing character] +
  Specify if the text columns in the source data needs to be enclosed in quotes.
 ** xref:dataflow-sas-reference.adoc#dataflow-sas-sync-escape-character[Escape character] +
  Specify this if the text qualifier is mentioned.
This should be the character which escapes the text qualifier character in the source data.
 ** xref:dataflow-sas-reference.adoc#dataflow-sas-sync-ts-load-options[TS load options] +
  Specifies the parameters passed with the `tsload` command, in addition to the commands already included by the application.
The format for these parameters is: +
 `--<param_1_name> <optional_param_1_value>` +
  `--<param_2_name> <optional_param_2_value>`

+
See xref:dataflow-sas-reference.adoc#sync-properties[Sync properties] for details, defaults, and examples.
. Save your work by clicking *Save*. +
 Alternatively, click *Save and sync now* to save your work and sync data at the same time.
