software/modules/docs/pages/dataflow-mail-setup.adoc, before:

= Setup DataFlow mail
:last_updated: 13/06/2020




Follow these steps to set up the the mail server for your DataFlow instance.

You must have administrator privileges.

. After logging in, click *Admin* on the top navigation bar.
. Select *Server config*.
. In the *Mail Setup* interface, specify these properties:
+
image::dataflow-mail-setup.png[Mail setup]
+++<dlentry id="dataflow-mail-config-relay-host">+++Relay host::::
The URL address or IP of the SMTP relay host.
+ Mandatory field.  *Example:* smtp.example.com+++</dlentry>++++++<dlentry id="dataflow-mail-config-from-email">+++From email::::
The email address associated with outgoing system and administrative messages.
+ Mandatory field.+++</dlentry>++++++<dlentry id="dataflow-mail-config-from-name">+++From name::::
The account name associated with outgoing system and administrative messages.
+ Mandatory field.+++</dlentry>++++++<dlentry id="dataflow-mail-config-smtp-auth-password">+++SMTP Auth password::::
If *SMTP Authorization Required* is _Yes_, provide the password.
+ Mandatory field.+++</dlentry>++++++<dlentry id="dataflow-mail-config-smtp-authorization-required">+++SMTP Authorization required::::
_Yes_ or _No_.
+ Mandatory field.+++</dlentry>++++++<dlentry id="dataflow-mail-config-admin-email-id">+++Admin email ID::::
The email account that receives messages from "`Contact admin`" form.
+ Mandatory field.+++</dlentry>+++

. Click *Save*.

Commit message:

SCAL 79999: cleaned and added redirect to dataflow-mail-setup.adoc
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/docs/pages/dataflow-mail-setup.adoc, after:

= Setup DataFlow mail
:last_updated: 13/06/2020
:experimental:
:linkattrs:
:redirect_from: /data-integrate/dataflow/dataflow-mail-setup.html



Follow these steps to set up the the mail server for your DataFlow instance.

You must have administrator privileges.

. After logging in, click *Admin* on the top navigation bar.
. Select *Server config*.
. In the *Mail Setup* interface, specify these properties:
+
image::dataflow-mail-setup.png[Mail setup]
[#dataflow-mail-config-relay-host]
Relay host::
The URL address or IP of the SMTP relay host. +
 Mandatory field.
 Example:;; smtp.example.com
[#dataflow-mail-config-from-email]
From email::
The email address associated with outgoing system and administrative messages. +
 Mandatory field.
[#dataflow-mail-config-from-name]
From name::
The account name associated with outgoing system and administrative messages. +
 Mandatory field.
[#dataflow-mail-config-smtp-auth-password]
SMTP Auth password::
If *SMTP Authorization Required* is _Yes_, provide the password. +
 Mandatory field.
[#dataflow-mail-config-smtp-authorization-required]
SMTP Authorization required::
_Yes_ or _No_. +
 Mandatory field.
[#dataflow-mail-config-admin-email-id]
Admin email ID::
The email account that receives messages from "`Contact admin`" form. +
 Mandatory field.

. Click *Save*.
