software/modules/docs/pages/dataflow.adoc, before:

= DataFlow
:last_updated: 07/29/2020


With DataFlow, you can move data into ThoughtSpot from most databases.


+++<div class="grid-container-opener">+++<img src="{{ "/images/dataflow-sm.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="ThoughtSpot DataFlow">+++<div class="grid-child">+++*Easily load data into ThoughtSpot's in-memory engine* + &bull;&nbsp;&nbsp;Graphical, code-free, analyst-friendly experience + &bull;&nbsp;&nbsp;Support for the most popular data sources

With ThoughtSpot DataFlow, you can schedule sync to refresh your data, and your visuals are always current.+++</div>+++

&nbsp;+++</div>+++

If your company maintains large sources of data externally, you can use ThoughtSpot DataFlow to easily ingest just the relevant information, and then query that data and use ThoughtSpot's analysis and visualization features.
And after you configure scheduled refresh, your analysis visuals are always current.

See

* xref:dataflow-key-features.html[Key features]
* xref:dataflow-workflow.html[How DataFlow works]
* xref:dataflow-home.html[DataFlow Home page]
* xref:dataflow-requirements-guidelines.adoc[Requirements and guidelines], including supported TQL editor commands
* Supported xref:dataflow-databases.adoc[databases], xref:dataflow-filesystems.adoc[filesystems], and xref:dataflow-applications.adoc[applications]
* xref:dataflow-administration.adoc[DataFlow administration], in particular xref:dataflow-user-management.adoc[managing users] and xref:dataflow-mail-setup.adoc[configuring email service]

Commit message:

SCAL 79999: cleaned and added redirect to dataflow.adoc
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/docs/pages/dataflow.adoc, after:

= DataFlow
:last_updated: 07/29/2020
:experimental:
:linkattrs:
:redirect_from: /data-integrate/dataflow/dataflow.html

With DataFlow, you can move data into ThoughtSpot from most databases.

++++
<div class="grid-container-opener"><img src="{{ "/images/dataflow-sm.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="ThoughtSpot DataFlow"><div class="grid-child"><b>Easily load data into ThoughtSpot's in-memory engine</b> <br>
 &bull;&nbsp;&nbsp;Graphical, code-free, analyst-friendly experience <br>
  &bull;&nbsp;&nbsp;Support for the most popular data sources

With ThoughtSpot DataFlow, you can schedule sync to refresh your data, and your visuals are always current.</div>

&nbsp;</div>
++++

If your company maintains large sources of data externally, you can use ThoughtSpot DataFlow to easily ingest just the relevant information, and then query that data and use ThoughtSpot's analysis and visualization features.
And after you configure scheduled refresh, your analysis visuals are always current.

See

* xref:dataflow-key-features.html[Key features]
* xref:dataflow-workflow.html[How DataFlow works]
* xref:dataflow-home.html[DataFlow Home page]
* xref:dataflow-requirements-guidelines.adoc[Requirements and guidelines], including supported TQL editor commands
* Supported xref:dataflow-databases.adoc[databases], xref:dataflow-filesystems.adoc[filesystems], and xref:dataflow-applications.adoc[applications]
* xref:dataflow-administration.adoc[DataFlow administration], in particular xref:dataflow-user-management.adoc[managing users] and xref:dataflow-mail-setup.adoc[configuring email service]
