software/modules/docs/pages/embrace-redshift-add.adoc, before:

= Add an Amazon Redshift connection
:last_updated: 03/25/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

Once ThoughtSpot Embrace is enabled, you can add a connection to a Redshift database.
This allows you to perform a live query of the external database to create answers and pinboards, without having to bring the data into ThoughtSpot.

To add a new connection to Redshift:

. Click *Data* in the top navigation bar.
. Click the *Embrace* tab at the top of the page, and click *+ Add connection* at the upper-right-hand side of the page.
+
image:redshift-addconnection.png[Click "+ Add connection]
// []({{ site.baseurl }}/images/new-connection.png "New db connect")

. Create a name for your connection, a description (optional), then select the Redshift connection type, and click *Continue*.
+
image:redshift-choosetype.png[Choose connection type]
// []({{ site.baseurl }}/images/select-new-connection.png "Select a new connection type")

. Enter the connection details for your Redshift data source.
+
image:redshift-connectiondetails.png[Enter connection details]
// []({{ site.baseurl }}/images/new-connection-creds.png "Select a connection type")
+
Refer to the xref:embrace-redshift-reference.adoc[Redshift connection reference] for more information on each of the specific attributes you must enter for your connection.

. (Optional) Provide additional key-value pairs that you need to set up your connection to Redshift, by doing the following:
 ** Click the *Advanced Config* menu to reveal the *Key* and *Value* fields.
 ** Enter your key and value information.
 ** To add more keys and values, click the plus sign (+), and enter them.

+
NOTE: Any key-value pairs that you enter must be defined in your Redshift data source.
Key-value pairs are case-sensitive.
. Click *Continue*.
. Select tables (on the left) and the columns from each table (on the right), and then click *Create connection*.
+
image::snowflake-selecttables.png[Select tables and columns]
+
A message appears indicating the number of tables and columns that will be added to your connection.

. Click *Confirm*.
+
Once the connection is added, you can search your Redshift database right away by clicking *Search now*.
+
image::redshift-connectioncreated.png[The "connection created" screen]
+
Your new connection appears on the *Data* > *Connections* page.
You can click the name of your connection to view the tables and columns in your connection.

The connection you just created is a link to the external data source.
If there are any joins in the selected tables of the external data source, those are imported into ThoughtSpot.

You can now perform a live query on the selected tables and columns of your connection.
Because the selected tables and columns in your connection are linked, it may take a while to initially render the search results.
This is because ThoughtSpot does not cache linked data.
With linked data, ThoughtSpot queries the external database directly, which is slower than querying data that is stored in ThoughtSpot's database.

== Related information

* xref:embrace-redshift-modify.adoc[Modify a Redshift connection]
* xref:embrace-redshift-reference.adoc[Redshift connection reference]
* xref:loading-intro.adoc[Load and manage data]
* xref:security.adoc[Data and object security]

Commit message:

embrace redshift ssl
Signed-off-by: Mark Plummer <mark.plummer@thoughtspot.com>

software/modules/docs/pages/embrace-redshift-add.adoc, after:

= Add an Amazon Redshift connection
:last_updated: 1/29/2020
:linkattrs:

Once ThoughtSpot Embrace is enabled, you can add a connection to a Redshift database.
This allows you to perform a live query of the external database to create answers and pinboards, without having to bring the data into ThoughtSpot.

== Enabling SSL in Amazon Redshift

If you need to create a secure connection to Amazon Redshift, you must edit the _parameter group_ assigned to your Redshift cluster and enable the _require_SSL_ flag.

To enable *FIPS-compliant SSL* mode, set both the _use_fips_ssl_ parameter and the _require_SSL_ parameter to true in the parameter group that is associated with your Redshift cluster.

For more information, see https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/mgmt/connecting-ssl-support.html[Connect using SSL, window=_blank] in Amazon’s Redshift documentation.

== Adding a Redshift connection

To add a new connection to Redshift:

. Click *Data* in the top navigation bar.
. Click the *Connections* tab at the top of the page, and click *+ Add connection* at the upper-right-hand side of the page.
+
image:redshift-addconnection.png[Click "+ Add connection"]
// [](new-connection.png "New db connect")

. Create a name for your connection, a description (optional), then select the Redshift connection type, and click *Continue*.
+
image:redshift-choosetype.png[Choose connection type]
// [](select-new-connection.png "Select a new connection type")

. Enter the connection details for your Redshift data source.
+
image:redshift-connectiondetails.png[Enter connection details]
// [](new-connection-creds.png "Select a connection type")
+
Refer to the xref:embrace-redshift-reference.adoc[Redshift connection reference] for more information on each of the specific attributes you must enter for your connection.

. (Optional) If you enabled SSL in your Redshift cluster, you must do the following:
 ** Click the *Advanced Config* menu to reveal the *Key* and *Value* fields.
 ** For Key, enter *SSL*.
 ** For Value, enter *True*.
+
To add more keys and values, click the plus sign (+), and enter them.
+
NOTE: Any key-value pairs that you enter must be defined in your Redshift data source.
Key-value pairs are case-sensitive.

. Click *Continue*.
. Select tables (on the left) and the columns from each table (on the right), and then click *Create connection*.
+
image::snowflake-selecttables.png[Select tables and columns]
+
A message appears indicating the number of tables and columns that will be added to your connection.

. Click *Confirm*.
+
Once the connection is added, you can search your Redshift database right away by clicking *Search now*.
+
image::redshift-connectioncreated.png[The "connection created" screen]
+
Your new connection appears on the *Data* > *Connections* page.
You can click the name of your connection to view the tables and columns in your connection.

The connection you just created is a link to the external data source.
If there are any joins in the selected tables of the external data source, those are imported into ThoughtSpot.

You can now perform a live query on the selected tables and columns of your connection.
Because the selected tables and columns in your connection are linked, it may take a while to initially render the search results.
This is because ThoughtSpot does not cache linked data.
With linked data, ThoughtSpot queries the external database directly, which is slower than querying data that is stored in ThoughtSpot's database.

== Related information

* xref:embrace-redshift-modify.adoc[Modify a Redshift connection]
* xref:embrace-redshift-reference.adoc[Redshift connection reference]
* xref:loading-intro.adoc[Load and manage data]
* xref:security.adoc[Data and object security]
