software/modules/docs/pages/follow-pinboard.adoc, before:

= Following pinboards
:last_updated: 1/17/2020

In ThoughtSpot, you can follow Pinboards and schedule email notifications to regularly review the visuals that represent dynamic data.

When you follow a pinboard, ThoughtSpot sends you regular emails that contain the snapshot of the pinboard.
You can change the scheduling of this email to suit your business needs.

[#pinboard-follow]
== Follow Pinboards

Complete the following steps to follow a Pinboard:

. Click *Pinboards* on the top navigation bar.
+
image::click-pinboards.png[]

. On the Pinboard list page, select a Pinboard by clicking on it.
. Click *Follow* at the top right corner of the Pinboard.
+
image::follow-pinboard.png[Follow Pinboard]
+
This action opens the scheduler.
See <<pinboard-follow-schedule,Schedule Pinboard reports>>.
+
Notice that after you configure the schedule, the Pinboard appears as *Following*.
+
image::followed-pinboard.png[Followed Pinboard]

[#pinboard-follow-schedule]
== Schedule Pinboard reports

In the *Follow* scheduler, specify the email schedule by marking the appropriate options in the pulldown menus.
The default schedule is weekly, on the day and time when you configure the schedule.

// ![Schedule the notifications](follow-schedule.png "Schedule the notifications")

// ![Schedule the notifications](pinboard-follow-schedule.png "Schedule the notifications")

include::partial$schedule-details.adoc[]

image::pinboard-follow-schedule-weekly.png[Schedule weekly Pinboard notifications]

image::pinboard-follow-schedule-daily.png[Schedule daily Pinboard notifications]

image::pinboard-follow-schedule-monthly.png[Schedule monthly Pinboard notifications]

Click *Save*.

If the user account is not configured with an email, you must supply one at this time.

[#schedule-change]
== Change the schedule

To change the existing time interval and the timing of notifications, click *Following* in the top right corner of the Pinboard.

When the scheduling interface appears, make the necessary changes, and click *Save*.

[#pinboard-unfollow]
== Unfollow Pinboard

To stop following a Pinboard, click *Following* in the top right corner.

When the scheduling interface appears, click *Unfollow*.

image::pinboard-unfollow.png[Unfollow Pinboard]

Commit message:

follow pinboard
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/docs/pages/follow-pinboard.adoc, after:

= Following pinboards
:last_updated: 8/13/2021

In ThoughtSpot, you can follow Pinboards and schedule email notifications to regularly review the visuals that represent dynamic data.

When you follow a pinboard, ThoughtSpot sends you regular emails that contain the snapshot of the pinboard.
You can change the scheduling of this email to suit your business needs.

[#pinboard-follow]
== Follow Pinboards

Complete the following steps to follow a Pinboard:

. Click *Pinboards* on the top navigation bar.
+
image::click-pinboards.png[]

. On the Pinboard list page, select a Pinboard by clicking on it.
. Click *Follow* at the top right corner of the Pinboard.
+
image::follow-pinboard.png[Follow Pinboard]
+
This action opens the scheduler.
See <<pinboard-follow-schedule,Schedule Pinboard reports>>.
+
Notice that after you configure the schedule, the Pinboard appears as *Following*.
+
image::followed-pinboard.png[Followed Pinboard]

[#pinboard-follow-schedule]
== Schedule Pinboard reports

In the *Follow* scheduler, specify the email schedule by marking the appropriate options in the pulldown menus.
The default schedule is weekly, on the day and time when you configure the schedule.

NOTE: If you have the *Can schedule Pinboards* privilege, you can schedule Pinboard deliveries for other users and groups. If you do not have this privilege, you can only schedule Pinboard deliveries for yourself.

// ![Schedule the notifications](follow-schedule.png "Schedule the notifications")

// ![Schedule the notifications](pinboard-follow-schedule.png "Schedule the notifications")

include::partial$schedule-details.adoc[]

image::pinboard-follow-schedule-weekly.png[Schedule weekly Pinboard notifications]

image::pinboard-follow-schedule-daily.png[Schedule daily Pinboard notifications]

image::pinboard-follow-schedule-monthly.png[Schedule monthly Pinboard notifications]

Click *Save*.

If the user account is not configured with an email, you must supply one at this time.

[#schedule-change]
== Change the schedule

To change the existing time interval and the timing of notifications, click *Following* in the top right corner of the Pinboard.

When the scheduling interface appears, make the necessary changes, and click *Save*.

[#pinboard-unfollow]
== Unfollow Pinboard

To stop following a Pinboard, click *Following* in the top right corner.

When the scheduling interface appears, click *Unfollow*.

image::pinboard-unfollow.png[Unfollow Pinboard]
