software/modules/docs/pages/formulas-cumulative.adoc, before:

= Cumulative functions
:last_updated: 06/23/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

Cumulative formulas are aggregate formulas.

Cumulative formulas allow you to calculate the average, max, min, or sum or your data over time. Although we usually talk about cumulative formulas over time, you can use them over any other sequential data. Each of the cumulative formulas accepts a measure and one or more optional grouping by an attribute (like region or department):

----
formula (measure, [attribute, attribute, ...])
----
Only the measure value is required. If you supply both a measure and attributes, the formula returns the aggregate of the measure accumulated by the attribute(s) in the order specified. You should experiment with only a measure and then with an attribute to see which output best meets your use case.

The cumulative formulas are:

[#cumulative_average]
cumulative_average::
Takes a measure and one or more attributes. Returns the average of the measure, accumulated by the attribute(s) in the order specified.
Example:::
----
cumulative_average (revenue, order date, state)
----

[#cumulative_max]
cumulative_max::
Takes a measure and one or more attributes. Returns the maximum of the measure, accumulated by the attribute(s) in the order specified.
Example:::
----
cumulative_max (revenue, state)
----

[#cumulative_min]
cumulative_min::
Takes a measure and one or more attributes. Returns the minimum of the measure, accumulated by the attribute(s) in the order specified.
Example:::
----
cumulative_min (revenue, campaign)
----

[#cumulative_sum]
cumulative_sum:::
Takes a measure and one or more attributes. Returns the sum of the measure, accumulated by the attribute(s) in the order specified.
Example:::
----
cumulative_sum (revenue, order date)
----

[#cumulative_sum_example]
== Calculate a cumulative sum
This example demonstrates using the `cumulative_sum` formula, also known as a running total. To use the cumulative function in a search:

. Start a new search.
+
image::aggregation_answer.png[aggregation answer]

. In the upper-right side of the table, click the image:icon-ellipses.png[] (more options) menu icon and select *Add formula*.
+
image::create_formula_in_answer.png[create formula in answer]

. Enter the `cumulative_sum` formula, providing a measure and one or more attributes.
+
This example returna the sum of revenue, accumulated by the commit date.
+
image::cumulative_sum_formula.png[cumulative sum formula]
. Name the formula by clicking its title and typing a new name.

. Click *Save*.
+
The formula appears in the search bar and in the table as its own column.
+
image::cumulative_sum_table.png[cumulative sum table]
+
A headline box that displays the cumulative sum within the entire table appears at the bottom. You can click it to toggle between different aggregations.

Commit message:

formulas-cumulative
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/docs/pages/formulas-cumulative.adoc, after:

= Cumulative functions
:last_updated: 06/23/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:
:redirect_from: /complex-search/about-cumulative-formulas.html

Cumulative formulas are aggregate formulas.

Cumulative formulas allow you to calculate the average, max, min, or sum or your data over time. Although we usually talk about cumulative formulas over time, you can use them over any other sequential data. Each of the cumulative formulas accepts a measure and one or more optional grouping by an attribute (like region or department):

----
formula (measure, [attribute, attribute, ...])
----
Only the measure value is required. If you supply both a measure and attributes, the formula returns the aggregate of the measure accumulated by the attribute(s) in the order specified. You should experiment with only a measure and then with an attribute to see which output best meets your use case.

The cumulative formulas are:

[#cumulative_average]
cumulative_average::
Takes a measure and one or more attributes. Returns the average of the measure, accumulated by the attribute(s) in the order specified.
Example:::
----
cumulative_average (revenue, order date, state)
----

[#cumulative_max]
cumulative_max::
Takes a measure and one or more attributes. Returns the maximum of the measure, accumulated by the attribute(s) in the order specified.
Example:::
----
cumulative_max (revenue, state)
----

[#cumulative_min]
cumulative_min::
Takes a measure and one or more attributes. Returns the minimum of the measure, accumulated by the attribute(s) in the order specified.
Example:::
----
cumulative_min (revenue, campaign)
----

[#cumulative_sum]
cumulative_sum:::
Takes a measure and one or more attributes. Returns the sum of the measure, accumulated by the attribute(s) in the order specified.
Example:::
----
cumulative_sum (revenue, order date)
----

[#cumulative_sum_example]
== Calculate a cumulative sum
This example demonstrates using the `cumulative_sum` formula, also known as a running total. To use the cumulative function in a search:

. Start a new search.
+
image::aggregation_answer.png[aggregation answer]

. In the upper-right side of the table, click the image:icon-ellipses.png[] (more options) menu icon and select *Add formula*.
+
image::create_formula_in_answer.png[create formula in answer]

. Enter the `cumulative_sum` formula, providing a measure and one or more attributes.
+
This example returns the sum of revenue, accumulated by the commit date.
+
image::cumulative_sum_formula.png[cumulative sum formula]
. Name the formula by clicking its title and typing a new name.

. Click *Save*.
+
The formula appears in the search bar and in the table as its own column.
+
image::cumulative_sum_table.png[cumulative sum table]
+
A headline box that displays the cumulative sum within the entire table appears at the bottom. You can click it to toggle between different aggregations.
