software/modules/docs/pages/formula-answer-edit.adoc, before:

= View or edit a formula in a search
:last_updated: 12/4/2020
:experimental:
:linkattrs:

Learn how to view or edit a formula.

You can always go back and view or edit a formula that was added to a search.
Do this by clicking the edit icon next to its name in the *Columns* listing.
Anyone who has edit privileges on an answer can also edit any formulas it contains.
To view or edit an existing formula in an answer:

. Navigate to the pinboard that contains the answer with the formula, click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Edit*.
. Scroll down to the bottom of the *Columns* listing.
You will see a data source called *Formulas*.
. Expand *Formulas*, and you can see a list of all the formulas in this answer.
+
image::edit_formula_in_answer.png[]

. Click the edit icon image:icon-edit-20px.png[edit icon] next to the formula name.
. View or edit your formula in the Formula Builder.
+
image::formula_builder_2.png[]
+
NOTE: Formulas elements are color coded by type and can include the formula operators and functions (blue), the names of columns (purple), and/or constants (black).

. If you edited your formula, click *Save* to save your changes.
Otherwise, click *Cancel*.

Commit message:

formula-answer-edit
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/docs/pages/formula-answer-edit.adoc, after:

= View or edit a formula in a search
:last_updated: 12/4/2020
:experimental:
:linkattrs:
:redirect_from: /complex-search/edit-formula-in-answer.html

Learn how to view or edit a formula.

You can always go back and view or edit a formula that was added to a search.
Do this by clicking the edit icon next to its name in the *Columns* listing.
Anyone who has edit privileges on an answer can also edit any formulas it contains.
To view or edit an existing formula in an answer:

. Navigate to the pinboard that contains the answer with the formula, click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Edit*.
. Scroll down to the bottom of the *Columns* listing.
You will see a data source called *Formulas*.
. Expand *Formulas*, and you can see a list of all the formulas in this answer.
+
image::edit_formula_in_answer.png[]

. Click the edit icon image:icon-edit-20px.png[edit icon] next to the formula name.
. View or edit your formula in the Formula Builder.
+
image::formula_builder_2.png[]
+
NOTE: Formulas elements are color coded by type and can include the formula operators and functions (blue), the names of columns (purple), and/or constants (black).

. If you edited your formula, click *Save* to save your changes.
Otherwise, click *Cancel*.
