software/modules/docs/pages/formula-add.adoc, before:

= Add a formula to a search
:last_updated: 06/23/2021
:experimental:
:linkattrs:

Learn how to add a formula to a search.

You can add a formula directly within a search.
Some common reasons for using a formula in a search are to perform mathematical functions, check for and replace null values, or add conditional logic.

To create a formula in a search, follow these steps:

. Start a new search, or choose an existing answer from a pinboard to edit.
. If the answer shows a chart, switch to *Table View*.
+
image::changeview-chartortable.png[Switch to table view]

. In the upper-right side of the table, click the *more options* icon  image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Add formula*.

+
image::formula-add-to-search.png[Create a new formula in an answer]

. Name and enter your formula in the Formula Builder.
+
image::worksheet-formula-profit.png[Use the Formula Builder]
+
NOTE: Formula elements are color coded by type and can include the formula operators and functions (blue), the names of columns (purple), and/or constants (black).

. You can see a list of formula operators with examples by clicking *Formula Assistant.* Expand a category, such as *Operators*, and click on a formula operator for a definition and example.
+
image::worksheet-formula-assistant.png[Formula Assistant]

. If you want to change what your formula returns, use the *Advanced settings*.
Depending on your formula, you may be able to change the following aspects:
 ** *Data type*: Determines the type of data that the formula generates.
For example, use `date` for an `add_days` formula.
 ** *Measure or attribute*: Determines if the output of the formula is a measure or an attribute.
For example, choose `attribute` for a formula that generates age groups, and choose `measure` for a formula that generates profit.
 ** *Aggregation*: Determines the default aggregation of the formula output.
For example, choose `min` to see minimum profit.

+
image::worksheet-formula-settings.png[Advanced settings in the Formula Builder]
. Click *Save*.
Name your formula, if you did not already name it.

'''
> **Related information**
>
> * xref:formula-reference.adoc[Formula function reference]

Commit message:

formula-add
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/docs/pages/formula-add.adoc, after:

= Add a formula to a search
:last_updated: 06/23/2021
:experimental:
:linkattrs:
:redirect_from: /complex-search/how-to-add-formula.html

Learn how to add a formula to a search.

You can add a formula directly within a search.
Some common reasons for using a formula in a search are to perform mathematical functions, check for and replace null values, or add conditional logic.

To create a formula in a search, follow these steps:

. Start a new search, or choose an existing answer from a pinboard to edit.
. If the answer shows a chart, switch to *Table View*.
+
image::changeview-chartortable.png[Switch to table view]

. In the upper-right side of the table, click the *more options* icon  image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Add formula*.

+
image::formula-add-to-search.png[Create a new formula in an answer]

. Name and enter your formula in the Formula Builder.
+
image::worksheet-formula-profit.png[Use the Formula Builder]
+
NOTE: Formula elements are color coded by type and can include the formula operators and functions (blue), the names of columns (purple), and/or constants (black).

. You can see a list of formula operators with examples by clicking *Formula Assistant.* Expand a category, such as *Operators*, and click on a formula operator for a definition and example.
+
image::worksheet-formula-assistant.png[Formula Assistant]

. If you want to change what your formula returns, use the *Advanced settings*.
Depending on your formula, you may be able to change the following aspects:
 ** *Data type*: Determines the type of data that the formula generates.
For example, use `date` for an `add_days` formula.
 ** *Measure or attribute*: Determines if the output of the formula is a measure or an attribute.
For example, choose `attribute` for a formula that generates age groups, and choose `measure` for a formula that generates profit.
 ** *Aggregation*: Determines the default aggregation of the formula output.
For example, choose `min` to see minimum profit.

+
image::worksheet-formula-settings.png[Advanced settings in the Formula Builder]
. Click *Save*.
Name your formula, if you did not already name it.

'''
> **Related information**
>
> * xref:formula-reference.adoc[Formula function reference]
