software/modules/docs/pages/installing-vmware.adoc, before:

= Configure ThoughtSpot nodes in VMware
:last_updated: 01/03/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

Prepare to install your ThoughtSpot cluster by configuring nodes.

Before you can install a ThoughtSpot cluster in VMware, you must configure your nodes.

[#installation-prerequisites]
== Installation Prerequisites

Ensure the successful creation of the virtual machines (VMs) before you install the ThoughtSpot cluster in VMware.

[cols="5,~",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
| &#10063; | *Download the OVF* Download the https://thoughtspot.egnyte.com/dl/iWvEqo76Pr/[Open Virtualization Format] (OVF) file.
| &#10063; | *Review configuration overview* Refer to xref:vmware-intro.adoc[VMware configuration overview] for detailed instance specs.
| &#10063; | *Create the instance* Refer to xref:vmware-setup.adoc[Set up VMware for ThoughtSpot] to create and launch your instance.
| &#10063; | *Review required ports* Refer to xref:ports.adoc[Network ports] to view the required ports for successful operation of ThoughtSpot.
|===

[#configure-nodes]
== Configure Nodes

After creating the instance, you must configure the nodes.

Follow the steps in this checklist:

[cols="5,~",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
| &#10063; | xref:node-step-1[Step 1: Log in to your cluster]
| &#10063; | xref:node-step-2[Step 2: Get a template for network configuration]
| &#10063; | xref:node-step-3[Step 3: Prepare node configuration]
| &#10063; | xref:node-step-4[Step 4: Configure the nodes]
| &#10063; | xref:node-step-5[Step 5: Confirm node configuration]
|===

include::partial$configure-nodes-steps1through5.adoc[]

== Install ThoughtSpot software

Next, xref:vmware-cluster-install.adoc[install your ThoughtSpot clusters].

include::partial$install-cluster-error-recovery.adoc[]

== Additional resources

As you develop your expertise in VMware network configuration, we recommend the following ThoughtSpot U course:

* https://training.thoughtspot.com/node-network-configuration/437249[Network Configuration]

See other training resources at
https://training.thoughtspot.com/[<img src="{{ "/images/ts-u.png" | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="ThoughtSpot U">]

'''
> **Related information**
>
> Use these references for successful installation and administration of ThoughtSpot.
> * xref:nodesconfig-example.adoc[the nodes.config file]
> * xref:parameters-nodesconfig.adoc[Parameters of the nodes.config file]
> * xref:cluster-create.adoc[Using the tscli cluster create command]
> * xref:parameters-cluster-create.adoc[Parameters of the `cluster create` command]
> * Contact https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support,window="_blank"].

Commit message:

SCAL-79999 (1) updated all *Related information* to standard callout (no longer an H2), (2) updated all references to ThoughtSpot U with course link and top-level reference, in a standard callout, at top of article or section, (3) updated check off lists to new format in many afticles, (4) deleted tsl-answer and tsl-pinboard articles, as these were redundant
Signed-off-by: Roza Leyderman <roza.leyderman@thoughtspot.com>

software/modules/docs/pages/installing-vmware.adoc, after:

= Configure ThoughtSpot nodes in VMware
:last_updated: 01/03/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

Prepare to install your ThoughtSpot cluster by configuring nodes.

Before you can install a ThoughtSpot cluster in VMware, you must configure your nodes.

'''
> **ThoughtSpot Training**
>
> * For best results when configuring ThoughtSpot nodes on VMware, we recommend that you take the following ThoughtSpot U course: * https://training.thoughtspot.com/node-network-configuration/437249[Network Configuration^].
> * See other training resources at https://training.thoughtspot.com/[ThoughtSpot U^].

'''


[#installation-prerequisites]
== Installation Prerequisites

Ensure the successful creation of the virtual machines (VMs) before you install the ThoughtSpot cluster in VMware.

[cols="5,~",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
| &#10063; | *Download the OVF* Download the https://thoughtspot.egnyte.com/dl/iWvEqo76Pr/[Open Virtualization Format] (OVF) file.
| &#10063; | *Review configuration overview* Refer to xref:vmware-intro.adoc[VMware configuration overview] for detailed instance specs.
| &#10063; | *Create the instance* Refer to xref:vmware-setup.adoc[Set up VMware for ThoughtSpot] to create and launch your instance.
| &#10063; | *Review required ports* Refer to xref:ports.adoc[Network ports] to view the required ports for successful operation of ThoughtSpot.
|===

[#configure-nodes]
== Configure Nodes

After creating the instance, you must configure the nodes.

Follow the steps in this checklist:

[cols="5,~",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
| &#10063; | xref:node-step-1[Step 1: Log in to your cluster]
| &#10063; | xref:node-step-2[Step 2: Get a template for network configuration]
| &#10063; | xref:node-step-3[Step 3: Prepare node configuration]
| &#10063; | xref:node-step-4[Step 4: Configure the nodes]
| &#10063; | xref:node-step-5[Step 5: Confirm node configuration]
|===

include::partial$configure-nodes-steps1through5.adoc[]

== Install ThoughtSpot software

Next, xref:vmware-cluster-install.adoc[install your ThoughtSpot clusters].

include::partial$install-cluster-error-recovery.adoc[]

'''
> **Related information**
>
> * xref:nodesconfig-example.adoc[the nodes.config file]
> * xref:parameters-nodesconfig.adoc[Parameters of the nodes.config file]
> * xref:cluster-create.adoc[Using the tscli cluster create command]
> * xref:parameters-cluster-create.adoc[Parameters of the `cluster create` command]
> * Contact https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support^].
