software/modules/docs/pages/notes.adoc, before:

= 6.3 Release Notes
:experimental:
:last_updated: 01/29/2021
:linkattrs:
:redirect_from: /6.3.0/release/notes.html", "/6.3.0.CU1/release/notes.html, /6.3.1/release/notes.html

ThoughtSpot version 6.3.1 is now available. These release notes include information about new and enhanced features.

To see our feature deprecation plans, please see xref:docs:deprecation.adoc[].

For a complete list of issues that we fixed in this release, see xref:fixed.adoc[Fixed issues].

* <<new-6-3-1,6.3.1 New Features>>
* <<new-6-3,6.3 New Features>>
* <<upgrade-paths,Supported Upgrade Paths>>

[#new-6-3-1]
== 6.3.1 New Features and Functionality

For a complete list of issues that we fixed in this release, see xref:fixed.adoc#releases-6-3-x[Fixed issues].

* <<new-6-3-1,6.3.1 New Features>>
** <<analyst-6-3-1,For the Analyst>>
** <<business-user-6-3-1,For the Business User>>
** <<data-engineer-6-3-1,For the Data Engineer>>
** <<it-ops-engineer-6-3-1,For the IT Ops Engineer>>

[#analyst-6-3-1]
=== For the Analyst
[#simplified-join-creation]
Simplified join creation::
  This release makes creating and editing joins from a table more flexible and intuitive. Our new joins interface allows you to define and edit a join's type and cardinality at the table level, where previously this was only possible at the Worksheet level. Refer to xref:add-joins.adoc[Table joins].

[#business-user-6-3-1]
=== For the Business User
[#internet-explorer]
Deprecation of Internet Explorer::
  ThoughtSpot browser support for Internet Explorer is now deprecated. Refer to xref:accessing.adoc[ThoughtSpot browser access] for a list of supported browsers.

[#information-center]
Information Center::
  ThoughtSpot has a new Information Center, accessible from the help icon image:icon-help-10px.png[] next to your profile on the top navigation bar. This new help menu contains many useful resources, including a navigation overview, several training videos, and links to more help across the ThoughtSpot product, community, training, and documentation. Refer to xref:help-center.adoc[].

[#data-engineer-6-3-1]
=== For the Data Engineer
[#embrace-oad-passtrough]
Embrace::
  Embrace now supports Oracle Autonomous Database [.label.label-beta]#Beta#. This feature is in beta and disabled by default. To enable this feature, contact xref:contact.adoc[ThoughtSpot Support]. +
  Embrace now supports security passthrough for Snowflake using OAuth for authentication and authorization. For more information, see xref:embrace-snowflake-add.adoc[Snowflake].

[#it-ops-engineer-6-3-1]
=== For the IT Ops Engineer
[consumption-based-pricing]
Consumption-based pricing::
  ThoughtSpot now offers consumption, or usage, based pricing. Refer to xref:consumption-pricing.adoc[Consumption-based pricing] and the xref:consumption-pricing-faq.adoc[Consumption pricing FAQ]. To compare consumption- and capacity-based pricing, refer to https://www.thoughtspot.com/pricing[ThoughtSpot pricing, window=_blank].

[#new-6-3]
== 6.3 New Features and Functionality

For a complete list of issues that we fixed in this release, see xref:fixed.adoc#releases-6-3-x[6.3 Fixed issues].

* <<new-6-3,6.3 New Features>>
 ** <<analyst-6-3,For the Analyst>>
 ** <<business-user-6-3,For the Business User>>
 ** <<data-engineer-6-3,For the Data Engineer>>
 ** <<it-ops-engineer-6-3,For the IT Ops Engineer>>

[#analyst-6-3]
=== For the Analyst
[#geomaps]
Geo maps::
  ThoughtSpot now supports xref:geomap-reference.adoc[geo map] visualizations for this new locale:
+
*Netherlands*: Province, Municipality, Postcode

[#scriptability]
Scriptability::
This release introduces expanded support for xref:scriptability.adoc[exporting and importing ThoughtSpot objects]. Pinboard and Answer Scriptability is now GA. You can also export, import, and update the following newly scriptable objects:
+
* Views
* Tables
+
NOTE:: ThoughtSpot Scripting Language is now called xref:tml.adoc[ThoughtSpot Modeling Language].

[#linked-filters]
Linked Pinboard filters::
  You can now create one filter that filters visualizations based on multiple Worksheets by linking the Worksheet columns, at the Pinboard level.
+
This is useful when you have a Pinboard built on multiple Worksheets, and you would like to filter on columns that are functionally the same, but exist in multiple Worksheets.
Refer to xref:linked-filters.adoc[Linked Pinboard filters].

[#selective-filters]
Selective Pinboard filters::
  You can now configure Pinboard filters to apply to specific visualizations that you choose.
+
This is useful when you would like to filter some, but not all, visualizations in a Pinboard. Refer to xref:selective-filters.adoc[Selective Pinboard filters].

[#business-user-6-3]
=== For the Business User

[#mobile-improvements]
Mobile app updates::
  ThoughtSpot mobile supports more features that were previously available only through the ThoughtSpot Web app, including:
+
* Deep linking
* Drill down
+
See xref:notes-mobile.adoc[ThoughtSpot mobile release notes] and xref:use-mobile.adoc[ThoughtSpot Mobile overview] for detailed information.

[#pivot-table]
Pivot table enhancements::
  This release includes enhancements to xref:chart-pivot-table.adoc[Pivot tables]. You can now:
+
* *Drill down* on values in pivot tables
* *Show underlying data* for values in pivot tables
* *SpotIQ analyze* values in pivot tables

[#data-engineer-6-3]
=== For the Data Engineer

[#dataflow]
DataFlow::
  New connection types;; In this release, DataFlow expands support to the following connection types:
+
* xref:dataflow-apache-parquet.adoc[Apache Parquet]
* xref:dataflow-databricks-delta-lake.adoc[Databricks Delta Lake]
* xref:dataflow-denodo.adoc[Denodo]
* xref:dataflow-jdbc.adoc[JDBC]
* xref:dataflow-rest-api.adoc[REST API]
* xref:dataflow-sas.adoc[SAS]

  Transformations;; In all DataFlow database connections, you can now add row-level formulas that use native database functions to transform your data as it loads into ThoughtSpot.

[#embrace]
Embrace::
  SpotIQ Analyze;; In this release, Embrace adds support for SpotIQ analyze. Now you can analyze any answer, pinboard vizualization, or data source to generate instant insights, by clicking the SpotIQ analyze button image:icon-lightbulb.png[spotiq analyze icon].

  Security Passthrough;; Embrace now supports security passthrough for *Snowflake* and *Google BigQuery* using OAuth for authentication and authorization. This feature is in beta for this release. Contact https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support,window="_blank"] for assistance.

[#it-ops-engineer-6-3]
=== For the IT Ops Engineer

[#entry]
Advanced lean mode for cloud deployments::
  For ThoughtSpot customers who want to deploy their AWS, Azure, and GCP instances with lower data sizes, this release brings enhancements to advanced lean mode configuration.
+
You can now configure lean mode yourself using tscli commands.
No need to contact ThoughtSpot.
For details, see xref:cloud.adoc#reducing-your-cloud-infrastructure-costs[Use small and medium instance types].

[#open-ldap-auth]
OpenLDAP authentication::
  ThoughtSpot now integrates with OpenLDAP for user authentication. LDAP provides security and makes user management more centralized.  To enable user authentication through OpenLDAP, contact https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support,window="_blank"].
+
We also made this feature available in ThoughtSpot release 6.0.5.

[#open-ldap-admin-user]
OpenLDAP admin user::
  ThoughtSpot now supports using your company's OpenLDAP admin user to SSH into your cluster(s) as an admin, instead of using the local ThoughtSpot admin user, which has sudo privileges.
+
This feature is only applicable to ThoughtSpot clusters that run on an xref:rhel.adoc[RHEL image]. Refer to xref:rhel-install-online.adoc#ldap_admin_user[Install the ThoughtSpot application on online clusters that use RHEL] to learn how to add the three OpenLDAP admin user parameters to your Ansible playbook.

[#admin-console]
Admin Console enhancements::
  This release reorganizes the Admin Console, to make it cleaner and more intuitive.
+
This includes the following changes:
+
* The *System Overview Pinboard* in the Admin Console has been deprecated. You can find visualizations from it on the xref:admin-portal-system-cluster-pinboard.adoc[System Cluster Pinboard] and the xref:admin-portal-system-alerts-pinboard.adoc[System Alerts Pinboard].
* The *Total Capacity* visualization is now in the *System Cluster Pinboard*.
* The visualizations about user activity that appeared in the *System Overview Pinboard* now appear in the new xref:admin-portal-user-adoption-pinboard.adoc[User Adoption Pinboard].
* The *Relational Data Cache* and *Relational Search Engine* panels that appeared in the *System Overview Pinboard* now appear in menu:Data[Usage > Data].
* Many of the visualizations that appeared in the *System Overview Pinboard* appear in the xref:system-info-usage.adoc[System Information and Usage Pinboard].
* The *Configuration Events* panel that appeared in the *System Overview Pinboard* now appears in the xref:admin-portal-system-alerts-pinboard.adoc[System Alerts Pinboard].

[#user-adoption-perfomance-tracking-pinboard]
User adoption and performance Pinboards::
  This release of ThoughtSpot contains two new default Pinboards for administrators.
+
* Use the *User Adoption Pinboard* in the *Admin Console* to understand how your ThoughtSpot users are interacting with ThoughtSpot, and how your user adoption is changing over time.
* Use the Performance Tracking Pinboard, accessible from the *Pinboards* tab, to understand how your ThoughtSpot cluster performs.
+
See the xref:admin-portal-user-adoption-pinboard.adoc[User Adoption Pinboard] and xref:performance-tracking.adoc[Performance Tracking Pinboard].

[#ease-of-installation]
RHEL and Amazon Linux 2 ease of installation::
  This release of ThoughtSpot makes it easier to deploy ThoughtSpot on an xref:al2-overview.adoc[Amazon Linux 2] or xref:rhel.adoc[RHEL image] platform.
+
* You can now use a Terraform, or Chef template, or an Ansible tarball, to install OS packages, dependencies, and the ThoughtSpot CLI (tscli), and configure your cluster. Previously, you could only use an Ansible tarball or Terraform template.
* You now only need 20 GB on the root drive for yum packages and system logs, and 200 GB for ThoughtSpot installation.
* You can now deploy ThoughtSpot on RHEL version 7.9.
You can no longer deploy ThoughtSpot on RHEL version 7.7.
* If your organization performs automation with a different configuration management tool, you can use the template ThoughtSpot developed for automation with Terraform. You can obtain this template from our https://github.com/thoughtspot/community-tools/tree/master/ThoughtSpot_Cloud_deployments/AWS/template_Homogeneous_cluster_ssm[Github repository, window=_blank]. ThoughtSpot provides templates for alternative tools only as generic guidelines. You should review the templates before using them and make sure that they are safe to use in your organization. In no way can ThoughtSpot be held responsible for any issue arising from their use.

[#upgrade-paths]
== Supported Upgrade Paths

If you are running one of the following versions, you can upgrade to the 6.3 release directly:

* 6.1.x to 6.3
* 6.2.x to 6.3

This includes any hotfixes or customer patches on these branches.

If you are running a different version, you must do a multiple pass upgrade.
First, upgrade to version 6.1.x, or version 6.2.x, and then to the 6.3 release.

NOTE: To successfully upgrade your ThoughtSpot cluster, all user profiles must include a valid email address.
Without valid email addresses, the upgrade is blocked.

Commit message:

SCAL-88957 saml mail field requirement release note
Signed-off-by: Teresa Killmond <teresa.killmond@thoughtspot.com>

software/modules/docs/pages/notes.adoc, after:

= 6.3 Release Notes
:experimental:
:last_updated: 01/29/2021
:linkattrs:
:redirect_from: /6.3.0/release/notes.html", "/6.3.0.CU1/release/notes.html, /6.3.1/release/notes.html

ThoughtSpot version 6.3.1 is now available. These release notes include information about new and enhanced features.

To see our feature deprecation plans, please see xref:docs:deprecation.adoc[].

For a complete list of issues that we fixed in this release, see xref:fixed.adoc[Fixed issues].

* <<new-6-3-1,6.3.1 New Features>>
* <<new-6-3,6.3 New Features>>
* <<upgrade-paths,Supported Upgrade Paths>>

[#new-6-3-1]
== 6.3.1 New Features and Functionality

For a complete list of issues that we fixed in this release, see xref:fixed.adoc#releases-6-3-x[Fixed issues].

* <<new-6-3-1,6.3.1 New Features>>
** <<analyst-6-3-1,For the Analyst>>
** <<business-user-6-3-1,For the Business User>>
** <<data-engineer-6-3-1,For the Data Engineer>>
** <<it-ops-engineer-6-3-1,For the IT Ops Engineer>>

[#analyst-6-3-1]
=== For the Analyst
[#simplified-join-creation]
Simplified join creation::
  This release makes creating and editing joins from a table more flexible and intuitive. Our new joins interface allows you to define and edit a join's type and cardinality at the table level, where previously this was only possible at the Worksheet level. Refer to xref:add-joins.adoc[Table joins].

[#business-user-6-3-1]
=== For the Business User
[#internet-explorer]
Deprecation of Internet Explorer::
  ThoughtSpot browser support for Internet Explorer is now deprecated. Refer to xref:accessing.adoc[ThoughtSpot browser access] for a list of supported browsers.

[#information-center]
Information Center::
  ThoughtSpot has a new Information Center, accessible from the help icon image:icon-help-10px.png[] next to your profile on the top navigation bar. This new help menu contains many useful resources, including a navigation overview, several training videos, and links to more help across the ThoughtSpot product, community, training, and documentation. Refer to xref:help-center.adoc[].

[#data-engineer-6-3-1]
=== For the Data Engineer
[#embrace-oad-passtrough]
Embrace::
  Embrace now supports Oracle Autonomous Database [.label.label-beta]#Beta#. This feature is in beta and disabled by default. To enable this feature, contact xref:contact.adoc[ThoughtSpot Support]. +
  Embrace now supports security passthrough for Snowflake using OAuth for authentication and authorization. For more information, see xref:embrace-snowflake-add.adoc[Snowflake].

[#it-ops-engineer-6-3-1]
=== For the IT Ops Engineer
[consumption-based-pricing]
Consumption-based pricing::
  ThoughtSpot now offers consumption, or usage, based pricing. Refer to xref:consumption-pricing.adoc[Consumption-based pricing] and the xref:consumption-pricing-faq.adoc[Consumption pricing FAQ]. To compare consumption- and capacity-based pricing, refer to https://www.thoughtspot.com/pricing[ThoughtSpot pricing, window=_blank].

[#saml-mail-field]
SAML configuration::
  When configuring SAML authentication for ThoughtSpot, it is now mandatory to map the `mail` attribute in the IDP metadata file to the email address of the user. If your company cannot meet this requirement, xref:contact.adoc[contact ThoughtSpot support]. For more information, refer to xref:saml-configure-tscli.adoc[Configure SAML].

[#new-6-3]
== 6.3 New Features and Functionality

For a complete list of issues that we fixed in this release, see xref:fixed.adoc#releases-6-3-x[6.3 Fixed issues].

* <<new-6-3,6.3 New Features>>
 ** <<analyst-6-3,For the Analyst>>
 ** <<business-user-6-3,For the Business User>>
 ** <<data-engineer-6-3,For the Data Engineer>>
 ** <<it-ops-engineer-6-3,For the IT Ops Engineer>>

[#analyst-6-3]
=== For the Analyst
[#geomaps]
Geo maps::
  ThoughtSpot now supports xref:geomap-reference.adoc[geo map] visualizations for this new locale:
+
*Netherlands*: Province, Municipality, Postcode

[#scriptability]
Scriptability::
This release introduces expanded support for xref:scriptability.adoc[exporting and importing ThoughtSpot objects]. Pinboard and Answer Scriptability is now GA. You can also export, import, and update the following newly scriptable objects:
+
* Views
* Tables
+
NOTE:: ThoughtSpot Scripting Language is now called xref:tml.adoc[ThoughtSpot Modeling Language].

[#linked-filters]
Linked Pinboard filters::
  You can now create one filter that filters visualizations based on multiple Worksheets by linking the Worksheet columns, at the Pinboard level.
+
This is useful when you have a Pinboard built on multiple Worksheets, and you would like to filter on columns that are functionally the same, but exist in multiple Worksheets.
Refer to xref:linked-filters.adoc[Linked Pinboard filters].

[#selective-filters]
Selective Pinboard filters::
  You can now configure Pinboard filters to apply to specific visualizations that you choose.
+
This is useful when you would like to filter some, but not all, visualizations in a Pinboard. Refer to xref:selective-filters.adoc[Selective Pinboard filters].

[#business-user-6-3]
=== For the Business User

[#mobile-improvements]
Mobile app updates::
  ThoughtSpot mobile supports more features that were previously available only through the ThoughtSpot Web app, including:
+
* Deep linking
* Drill down
+
See xref:notes-mobile.adoc[ThoughtSpot mobile release notes] and xref:use-mobile.adoc[ThoughtSpot Mobile overview] for detailed information.

[#pivot-table]
Pivot table enhancements::
  This release includes enhancements to xref:chart-pivot-table.adoc[Pivot tables]. You can now:
+
* *Drill down* on values in pivot tables
* *Show underlying data* for values in pivot tables
* *SpotIQ analyze* values in pivot tables

[#data-engineer-6-3]
=== For the Data Engineer

[#dataflow]
DataFlow::
  New connection types;; In this release, DataFlow expands support to the following connection types:
+
* xref:dataflow-apache-parquet.adoc[Apache Parquet]
* xref:dataflow-databricks-delta-lake.adoc[Databricks Delta Lake]
* xref:dataflow-denodo.adoc[Denodo]
* xref:dataflow-jdbc.adoc[JDBC]
* xref:dataflow-rest-api.adoc[REST API]
* xref:dataflow-sas.adoc[SAS]

  Transformations;; In all DataFlow database connections, you can now add row-level formulas that use native database functions to transform your data as it loads into ThoughtSpot.

[#embrace]
Embrace::
  SpotIQ Analyze;; In this release, Embrace adds support for SpotIQ analyze. Now you can analyze any answer, pinboard vizualization, or data source to generate instant insights, by clicking the SpotIQ analyze button image:icon-lightbulb.png[spotiq analyze icon].

  Security Passthrough;; Embrace now supports security passthrough for *Snowflake* and *Google BigQuery* using OAuth for authentication and authorization. This feature is in beta for this release. Contact https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support,window="_blank"] for assistance.

[#it-ops-engineer-6-3]
=== For the IT Ops Engineer

[#entry]
Advanced lean mode for cloud deployments::
  For ThoughtSpot customers who want to deploy their AWS, Azure, and GCP instances with lower data sizes, this release brings enhancements to advanced lean mode configuration.
+
You can now configure lean mode yourself using tscli commands.
No need to contact ThoughtSpot.
For details, see xref:cloud.adoc#reducing-your-cloud-infrastructure-costs[Use small and medium instance types].

[#open-ldap-auth]
OpenLDAP authentication::
  ThoughtSpot now integrates with OpenLDAP for user authentication. LDAP provides security and makes user management more centralized.  To enable user authentication through OpenLDAP, contact https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support,window="_blank"].
+
We also made this feature available in ThoughtSpot release 6.0.5.

[#open-ldap-admin-user]
OpenLDAP admin user::
  ThoughtSpot now supports using your company's OpenLDAP admin user to SSH into your cluster(s) as an admin, instead of using the local ThoughtSpot admin user, which has sudo privileges.
+
This feature is only applicable to ThoughtSpot clusters that run on an xref:rhel.adoc[RHEL image]. Refer to xref:rhel-install-online.adoc#ldap_admin_user[Install the ThoughtSpot application on online clusters that use RHEL] to learn how to add the three OpenLDAP admin user parameters to your Ansible playbook.

[#admin-console]
Admin Console enhancements::
  This release reorganizes the Admin Console, to make it cleaner and more intuitive.
+
This includes the following changes:
+
* The *System Overview Pinboard* in the Admin Console has been deprecated. You can find visualizations from it on the xref:admin-portal-system-cluster-pinboard.adoc[System Cluster Pinboard] and the xref:admin-portal-system-alerts-pinboard.adoc[System Alerts Pinboard].
* The *Total Capacity* visualization is now in the *System Cluster Pinboard*.
* The visualizations about user activity that appeared in the *System Overview Pinboard* now appear in the new xref:admin-portal-user-adoption-pinboard.adoc[User Adoption Pinboard].
* The *Relational Data Cache* and *Relational Search Engine* panels that appeared in the *System Overview Pinboard* now appear in menu:Data[Usage > Data].
* Many of the visualizations that appeared in the *System Overview Pinboard* appear in the xref:system-info-usage.adoc[System Information and Usage Pinboard].
* The *Configuration Events* panel that appeared in the *System Overview Pinboard* now appears in the xref:admin-portal-system-alerts-pinboard.adoc[System Alerts Pinboard].

[#user-adoption-perfomance-tracking-pinboard]
User adoption and performance Pinboards::
  This release of ThoughtSpot contains two new default Pinboards for administrators.
+
* Use the *User Adoption Pinboard* in the *Admin Console* to understand how your ThoughtSpot users are interacting with ThoughtSpot, and how your user adoption is changing over time.
* Use the Performance Tracking Pinboard, accessible from the *Pinboards* tab, to understand how your ThoughtSpot cluster performs.
+
See the xref:admin-portal-user-adoption-pinboard.adoc[User Adoption Pinboard] and xref:performance-tracking.adoc[Performance Tracking Pinboard].

[#ease-of-installation]
RHEL and Amazon Linux 2 ease of installation::
  This release of ThoughtSpot makes it easier to deploy ThoughtSpot on an xref:al2-overview.adoc[Amazon Linux 2] or xref:rhel.adoc[RHEL image] platform.
+
* You can now use a Terraform, or Chef template, or an Ansible tarball, to install OS packages, dependencies, and the ThoughtSpot CLI (tscli), and configure your cluster. Previously, you could only use an Ansible tarball or Terraform template.
* You now only need 20 GB on the root drive for yum packages and system logs, and 200 GB for ThoughtSpot installation.
* You can now deploy ThoughtSpot on RHEL version 7.9.
You can no longer deploy ThoughtSpot on RHEL version 7.7.
* If your organization performs automation with a different configuration management tool, you can use the template ThoughtSpot developed for automation with Terraform. You can obtain this template from our https://github.com/thoughtspot/community-tools/tree/master/ThoughtSpot_Cloud_deployments/AWS/template_Homogeneous_cluster_ssm[Github repository, window=_blank]. ThoughtSpot provides templates for alternative tools only as generic guidelines. You should review the templates before using them and make sure that they are safe to use in your organization. In no way can ThoughtSpot be held responsible for any issue arising from their use.

[#upgrade-paths]
== Supported Upgrade Paths

If you are running one of the following versions, you can upgrade to the 6.3 release directly:

* 6.1.x to 6.3
* 6.2.x to 6.3

This includes any hotfixes or customer patches on these branches.

If you are running a different version, you must do a multiple pass upgrade.
First, upgrade to version 6.1.x, or version 6.2.x, and then to the 6.3 release.

NOTE: To successfully upgrade your ThoughtSpot cluster, all user profiles must include a valid email address.
Without valid email addresses, the upgrade is blocked.
