software/modules/docs/pages/pinboard-layout-edit.adoc, before:

= Edit the layout of a pinboard
:last_updated: 11/30/2020
:experimental:
:linkattrs:

Editing the layout of a pinboard lets you snap visualizations into place, choose between set visualization sizes, and reset your layout.

Visualizations within a pinboard are easy to move around and snap into place on a relative flow layout.
Your pinboard layout is also responsive to your browser resolution.
This helps keep the layout of your pinboard neat and organized.

== Reorder the visualization

In addition, the size picker at the bottom of a visualization's three-dot Actions menu lets you toggle between predetermined sizes for each visualization.
Charts and graphs can be toggled between a small, medium, and full width size, while headlines can be only one size (small).
One row of the pinboard can hold a predetermined number of visualizations of each size.

. Click *Pinboards*, on the top navigation bar.
. On the pinboards page, click the pinboard you would like to edit.
. Drag and drop your visualizations on the layout grid to reorder your pinboard.
Resize a visualization by choosing a predetermined size under the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] for the visualization.
+
image::resize_pinboard_visualization.png[]

. Save your pinboard by clicking the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and selecting *Save*.

== Change the orientation of a chart or table

You can change the orientation of a chart or table on a pinboard.
To do this:

. Navigate to the chart or table.
. Click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] for the chart or table.
+
ThoughtSpot displays the drop-down menu.
+
image::size-pinboard-item.png[]
+
The last item shows different possible orientations, with the current orientation selected.

. Select a new orientation.
. Click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Save*.

== Delete a visualization from your pinboard

To delete a visualization:

. Click *Pinboards*, on the top navigation bar.
. On the pinboard list page, click the pinboard that contains the visualization you would like to delete.
. In the upper-right corner of the visualization, click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Delete*.
+
image::delete-a-pinboard-visualization.png[]

. Save your pinboard by clicking the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and selecting *Save*.

== Copy and edit a visualization from your pinboard

To edit a copy of a visualization:

. Click *Pinboards*, on the top navigation bar.
. On the pinboard list page, click the pinboard that contains the visualization you would like to edit a copy of.
. Find a visualization in the pinboard you want to edit.
. In the upper-right corner of the visualization, click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Copy and edit*.
+
image::make_a_copy_of_a_pinboard_viz.png[]
+
A copy of the answer that was used to create the visualization is displayed with "`Copy of`" added to the beginning of the title.

. Make any changes you want to the visualization.
. Click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Save*.
+
The Save Answer dialog box appears.
+
image::name_your_pinboard_copy.png[]

. Change the name and description, as needed, and click *SAVE*.
+
When you navigate back to the Answers page, your edited Answer will appear in the list.

== Other pinboard edits

Other pinboard actions include actions you normally perform on your search as well as actions that you can only perform on a pinboard.
Most of these actions are found under the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon].

image::pinboard_actions.png[]

Other actions are available on a pinboard display itself.
Some actions are static others appear only when you over over specific locations of the pinboard.
This diagram displays active action areas on a pinboard.

image::pinboard-controls.png[]

Commit message:

pinboard-layout-edit
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/docs/pages/pinboard-layout-edit.adoc, after:

= Edit the layout of a pinboard
:last_updated: 11/30/2020
:experimental:
:linkattrs:
:redirect_from: /end-user/pinboards/edit-the-layout-of-a-pinboard.html

Editing the layout of a pinboard lets you snap visualizations into place, choose between set visualization sizes, and reset your layout.

Visualizations within a pinboard are easy to move around and snap into place on a relative flow layout.
Your pinboard layout is also responsive to your browser resolution.
This helps keep the layout of your pinboard neat and organized.

== Reorder the visualization

In addition, the size picker at the bottom of a visualization's three-dot Actions menu lets you toggle between predetermined sizes for each visualization.
Charts and graphs can be toggled between a small, medium, and full width size, while headlines can be only one size (small).
One row of the pinboard can hold a predetermined number of visualizations of each size.

. Click *Pinboards*, on the top navigation bar.
. On the pinboards page, click the pinboard you would like to edit.
. Drag and drop your visualizations on the layout grid to reorder your pinboard.
Resize a visualization by choosing a predetermined size under the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] for the visualization.
+
image::resize_pinboard_visualization.png[]

. Save your pinboard by clicking the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and selecting *Save*.

== Change the orientation of a chart or table

You can change the orientation of a chart or table on a pinboard.
To do this:

. Navigate to the chart or table.
. Click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] for the chart or table.
+
ThoughtSpot displays the drop-down menu.
+
image::size-pinboard-item.png[]
+
The last item shows different possible orientations, with the current orientation selected.

. Select a new orientation.
. Click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Save*.

== Delete a visualization from your pinboard

To delete a visualization:

. Click *Pinboards*, on the top navigation bar.
. On the pinboard list page, click the pinboard that contains the visualization you would like to delete.
. In the upper-right corner of the visualization, click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Delete*.
+
image::delete-a-pinboard-visualization.png[]

. Save your pinboard by clicking the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and selecting *Save*.

== Copy and edit a visualization from your pinboard

To edit a copy of a visualization:

. Click *Pinboards*, on the top navigation bar.
. On the pinboard list page, click the pinboard that contains the visualization you would like to edit a copy of.
. Find a visualization in the pinboard you want to edit.
. In the upper-right corner of the visualization, click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Copy and edit*.
+
image::make_a_copy_of_a_pinboard_viz.png[]
+
A copy of the answer that was used to create the visualization is displayed with "`Copy of`" added to the beginning of the title.

. Make any changes you want to the visualization.
. Click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Save*.
+
The Save Answer dialog box appears.
+
image::name_your_pinboard_copy.png[]

. Change the name and description, as needed, and click *SAVE*.
+
When you navigate back to the Answers page, your edited Answer will appear in the list.

== Other pinboard edits

Other pinboard actions include actions you normally perform on your search as well as actions that you can only perform on a pinboard.
Most of these actions are found under the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon].

image::pinboard_actions.png[]

Other actions are available on a pinboard display itself.
Some actions are static others appear only when you over over specific locations of the pinboard.
This diagram displays active action areas on a pinboard.

image::pinboard-controls.png[]
