software/modules/docs/pages/r-thoughtspot.adoc, before:

= R in ThoughtSpot
:last_updated: 02/01/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

Analyze your data with R scripts that ship with ThoughtSpot, and build visualizations and Pinboards based on the analytical insights you obtained. You can also create custom R scripts, and share them with your team.

R is a popular open source programming language for statistical computing, machine learning, and AI.
ThoughtSpot makes R analysis available as a fully integrated feature.

NOTE: Custom R is disabled by default.
To turn on custom R scripting, contact your site administrator.

== Using R in ThoughtSpot

Users with R privileges can run R scripts directly on search results.

Analysts and data scientists who are proficient in R can create and share custom scripts.

Users can leverage custom scripts and ThoughtSpot provided scripts, run pre-built R scripts on top of their search results, and share R visualizations as answers and pinboards.

This topic explains how to use R in ThoughtSpot both from an end user and scripting perspective, but is not meant as an R primer.

== How to access R scripts

Users with R script privileges can click the *R* icon image:r-icon-inline-2.png[R icon] on the toolbar for any search result (answer).

image::r-icon.png[]

From here, you have options to write a custom script, or load a pre-built or ThoughtSpot provided script.

image::r-load-or-write-script.png[]

== Run pre-built R scripts

You don't have to have a background in statistics or be an R programmer to run R analyses in ThoughtSpot.
You can use ThoughtSpot-provided scripts and share the R visualizations with others.

For more on how to run provided scripts, skip to xref:r-scripts-run.adoc[Run pre-built R scripts on answers]

== Write your own R scripts in ThoughtSpot

If you know R, you can write your own custom scripts, share them as templates, test and run them on your data in ThoughtSpot, and build up a shared library of R analyses, scripts, visualizations, and pinboards.

Start with the topic on how to xref:r-scripts.adoc[Create and share R scripts] to learn more about writing R scripts in ThoughtSpot, including a few particulars on syntax and column bindings.

To learn more about R programming in general, a good place to start is https://www.r-project.org/[R Project for Statistical Computing].
Also, Anthony Chen's blog post on https://www.thoughtspot.com/codex/using-r-analysis-thoughtspot-time-series-forecasting[Using R Analysis in ThoughtSpot for Time Series Forecasting] is a nice introduction to writing R scripts in ThoughtSpot.

image::r-pinboard-examples.png[]

'''
> **Related information**
>
> * xref:r-scripts.adoc[Create and share R scripts]
> * xref:r-scripts-run.adoc[Run pre-built R scripts on answers]
> * xref:spotiq-r.adoc[SpotIQ custom analysis]
> * xref:groups-privileges.adoc[Understand groups and privileges]
> * xref:tscli-command-ref.adoc#tscli-rpackage[tscli rpackage]

Commit message:

r-thoughtspot
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/docs/pages/r-thoughtspot.adoc, after:

= R in ThoughtSpot
:last_updated: 02/01/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:
:redirect_from: /end-user/r-scripts/about-r-in-thoughtspot.html

Analyze your data with R scripts that ship with ThoughtSpot, and build visualizations and Pinboards based on the analytical insights you obtained. You can also create custom R scripts, and share them with your team.

R is a popular open source programming language for statistical computing, machine learning, and AI.
ThoughtSpot makes R analysis available as a fully integrated feature.

NOTE: Custom R is disabled by default.
To turn on custom R scripting, contact your site administrator.

== Using R in ThoughtSpot

Users with R privileges can run R scripts directly on search results.

Analysts and data scientists who are proficient in R can create and share custom scripts.

Users can leverage custom scripts and ThoughtSpot provided scripts, run pre-built R scripts on top of their search results, and share R visualizations as answers and pinboards.

This topic explains how to use R in ThoughtSpot both from an end user and scripting perspective, but is not meant as an R primer.

== How to access R scripts

Users with R script privileges can click the *R* icon image:r-icon-inline-2.png[R icon] on the toolbar for any search result (answer).

image::r-icon.png[]

From here, you have options to write a custom script, or load a pre-built or ThoughtSpot provided script.

image::r-load-or-write-script.png[]

== Run pre-built R scripts

You don't have to have a background in statistics or be an R programmer to run R analyses in ThoughtSpot.
You can use ThoughtSpot-provided scripts and share the R visualizations with others.

For more on how to run provided scripts, skip to xref:r-scripts-run.adoc[Run pre-built R scripts on answers]

== Write your own R scripts in ThoughtSpot

If you know R, you can write your own custom scripts, share them as templates, test and run them on your data in ThoughtSpot, and build up a shared library of R analyses, scripts, visualizations, and pinboards.

Start with the topic on how to xref:r-scripts.adoc[Create and share R scripts] to learn more about writing R scripts in ThoughtSpot, including a few particulars on syntax and column bindings.

To learn more about R programming in general, a good place to start is https://www.r-project.org/[R Project for Statistical Computing].
Also, Anthony Chen's blog post on https://www.thoughtspot.com/codex/using-r-analysis-thoughtspot-time-series-forecasting[Using R Analysis in ThoughtSpot for Time Series Forecasting] is a nice introduction to writing R scripts in ThoughtSpot.

image::r-pinboard-examples.png[]

'''
> **Related information**
>
> * xref:r-scripts.adoc[Create and share R scripts]
> * xref:r-scripts-run.adoc[Run pre-built R scripts on answers]
> * xref:spotiq-r.adoc[SpotIQ custom analysis]
> * xref:groups-privileges.adoc[Understand groups and privileges]
> * xref:tscli-command-ref.adoc#tscli-rpackage[tscli rpackage]
