software/modules/docs/pages/schedule-materialization.adoc, before:

'''

title: [Schedule materialization refresh on a view]

last_updated: 11/2/2018 summary: "Learn how to schedule materialization refresh of a view to keep it in sync with the data that makes it up." toc: false sidebar: mydoc_sidebar permalink: /:collection/:path.html --

To keep the data in a view up-to-date, you can schedule periodic refreshes from the underlying table(s).

To schedule materialization of a view:

. To find your view, click *Data* in the top menu, and choose *Views*.
. Click the name of your view.
. Click *Schema*.
. Under *Materialization*, click the link next to *Update Schedule*.
. In the *Schedule Data Updates* dialog, select an option for *Repeats* (Monthly, Weekly, or Daily).
+
image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/materialized-view-sched-weekly.png[]

. Fill in the schedule details:
+
image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/schedule-data-updates-weekly.png[]

. Click *Schedule*.

{% include note.html content="Refresh works only if it is scheduled in the refresh window set for the cluster (default: 8:00 PM - 4:00 AM).
Only the start time of the refresh window is configurable using the flag `orion.materializationConfig.refreshWindowStartTime` which can be set to values such as `12:00PM` or `01:00AM` etc.
Example: To set the cluster window from 2:00 AM to 10:00 AM you can set the flag as `orion.materializationConfig.refreshWindowStartTime \"02:00AM\"`."%}

== Related Information

* link:{{ site.baseurl }}/complex-search/about-query-on-query.html[Understand views]
* link:{{ site.baseurl }}/complex-search/create-aggregated-worksheet.html[Save a search as a view]
* link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/loading/materialized-views.html[About materialized views]

Commit message:

corrected image and link syntax in Schedule materialization refresh on a View
Signed-off-by: naomi.lattanzi <naomi.lattanzi@thoughtspot.com>

software/modules/docs/pages/schedule-materialization.adoc, after:

'''

= Schedule materialization refresh on a view
:last_updated: 11/2/2018
:toc: false

Learn how to schedule materialization refresh of a view to keep it in sync with the data that makes it up.

To keep the data in a view up-to-date, you can schedule periodic refreshes from the underlying table(s).

To schedule materialization of a view:

. To find your view, click *Data* in the top menu, and choose *Views*.
. Click the name of your view.
. Click *Schema*.
. Under *Materialization*, click the link next to *Update Schedule*.
. In the *Schedule Data Updates* dialog, select an option for *Repeats* (Monthly, Weekly, or Daily).
+
image::materialized-view-sched-weekly.png[]

. Fill in the schedule details:
+
image::schedule-data-updates-weekly.png[]

. Click *Schedule*.

NOTE: Refresh works only if it is scheduled in the refresh window set for the cluster (default: 8:00 PM - 4:00 AM).
Only the start time of the refresh window is configurable using the flag `orion.materializationConfig.refreshWindowStartTime` which can be set to values such as `12:00PM` or `01:00AM` etc.
Example: To set the cluster window from 2:00 AM to 10:00 AM you can set the flag as `orion.materializationConfig.refreshWindowStartTime \"02:00AM\"`.

== Related Information

* xref:about-query-on-query.adoc[Understand views]
* xref:create-aggregated-worksheet.adoc[Save a search as a view]
* xref:materialized-views.adoc[About materialized views]
