software/modules/docs/pages/searchiq-optimize-experts.adoc, before:

= Add Experts for SearchIQ
:last_updated: 11/19/2019

It is useful to identify experts who can help with SearchIQ.

SearchIQ is in [.label.label-beta]#Beta#.

NOTE: SearchIQ is turned off by default.
ThoughtSpot Support can enable it for you.
SearchIQ is only available in English.

We recommend that you add Experts to the datasource.
These people in your organization know a great deal about the data, and can help you train SearchIQ.
They are also the individuals who can assist business users in validating the answers they receive as a result of both regular Search and SearchIQ.
You can learn more about that by reading about our xref:ask-an-expert.adoc[Ask an expert] feature.

To specify the experts for the datasource, follow these steps:

. Click the ellipsis icon at the top right corner, and select *Manage Experts*.
+
image::manage-experts-searchiq.png[]

. In the *Manage Experts* window modal, you may see existing experts.
Add more users and groups, and click *Add*.
+
image::add-experts.png[]

. After you finish adding experts, click *Done*.
+
image::add-experts-done.png[]

Commit message:

edited ellipsis icon in searchiq-optimize-experts.adoc
Signed-off-by: naomi.lattanzi <naomi.lattanzi@thoughtspot.com>

software/modules/docs/pages/searchiq-optimize-experts.adoc, after:

= Add Experts for SearchIQ
:last_updated: 11/19/2019

It is useful to identify experts who can help with SearchIQ.

SearchIQ is in [.label.label-beta]#Beta#.

NOTE: SearchIQ is turned off by default.
ThoughtSpot Support can enable it for you.
SearchIQ is only available in English.

We recommend that you add Experts to the datasource.
These people in your organization know a great deal about the data, and can help you train SearchIQ.
They are also the individuals who can assist business users in validating the answers they receive as a result of both regular Search and SearchIQ.
You can learn more about that by reading about our xref:ask-an-expert.adoc[Ask an expert] feature.

To specify the experts for the datasource, follow these steps:

. Click the *More* menu icon image:icon-more-10px.png[] at the top right corner, and select *Manage Experts*.
+
image::manage-experts-searchiq.png[]

. In the *Manage Experts* window modal, you may see existing experts.
Add more users and groups, and click *Add*.
+
image::add-experts.png[]

. After you finish adding experts, click *Done*.
+
image::add-experts-done.png[]
