software/modules/docs/pages/search-columns.adoc, before:

= Search results and column types
:last_updated: 12/24/2020
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

Searches in ThoughtSpot use columns that are defined as either attributes or measures.

ThoughtSpot identifies search columns (`sales`, `customer_name`, `total_sale`) as either attributes or measures.
The columns you choose impact your search results.
That's because several chart types expect that your search contains a certain number of attributes and a certain number of measures.

[#attributes]
== Attributes

Attributes are primarily text or date values.
Attributes make up the x-axis of your chart most of time.
Some examples of attributes in terms of a person include name, eye color, occupation, social security number, address, employee ID, and phone number.

[#measures]
== Measures

Measures are numeric values you can do math on, with meaningful results.
You will most likely find your measures on the y-axis of your chart.
Some examples of measures in terms of a person are age, height, and weight.

== Query details

After, or while completing a search, you can see how ThoughtSpot displayed the answer.
Click the *Query details* button on the right-hand side of the screen to open the *Query details* panel.

image::query-details.png[Query details]

This panel shows the measures that ThoughtSpot computed, for each combination of attributes.
Choose *Query visualizer* to see search filters and how the tables were linked and used.

Commit message:

search-columns
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/docs/pages/search-columns.adoc, after:

= Search results and column types
:last_updated: 12/24/2020
:linkattrs:
:experimental:
:redirect_from: /end-user/search/attributes-and-measures.html

Searches in ThoughtSpot use columns that are defined as either attributes or measures.

ThoughtSpot identifies search columns (`sales`, `customer_name`, `total_sale`) as either attributes or measures.
The columns you choose impact your search results.
That's because several chart types expect that your search contains a certain number of attributes and a certain number of measures.

[#attributes]
== Attributes

Attributes are primarily text or date values.
Attributes make up the x-axis of your chart most of time.
Some examples of attributes in terms of a person include name, eye color, occupation, social security number, address, employee ID, and phone number.

[#measures]
== Measures

Measures are numeric values you can do math on, with meaningful results.
You will most likely find your measures on the y-axis of your chart.
Some examples of measures in terms of a person are age, height, and weight.

== Query details

After, or while completing a search, you can see how ThoughtSpot displayed the answer.
Click the *Query details* button on the right-hand side of the screen to open the *Query details* panel.

image::query-details.png[Query details]

This panel shows the measures that ThoughtSpot computed, for each combination of attributes.
Choose *Query visualizer* to see search filters and how the tables were linked and used.
