software/modules/docs/pages/searchiq-optimize-columns.adoc, before:

= Enable Columns for SearchIQ
:last_updated: 11/19/2019

Allow users to use SearchIQ by enabling SearchIQ for the columns of the data source.

SearchIQ is in [.label.label-beta]#Beta#.

NOTE: SearchIQ is turned off by default.
ThoughtSpot Support can enable it for you.
SearchIQ is only available in English.

Before enabling columns, keep in mind these points, and other in-product guidelines:

* Enable no more than fifteen (15) columns for SearchIQ.
* Enable at most one (1) date column.
* Column names should not contain more than 3 words.
* Name the columns well, by optimizing for business users.
For example, use _Opportunity Cost_ and avoid `opp_cst`.
* Avoid indexing descriptive columns, ones that contain more than seven (7) words, or contain values with stop words, such as _is_, _are_, _the_, _what_, and so on).
See the link:{{ site.baseurl }}/reference/stop-words.html[Stop Words] reference for the full list of stop words.
* For columns that represent formulas with categorical values, set the *Indexing Type* to `PREFIX_AND_SUBSTRING`.

To enable columns in a worksheet for SearchIQ, follow these steps:

. Click *Data* on top navigation bar.
. Click *Tables*.
. Click *Worksheets*.
. Select and open the worksheet you want to enable for SearchIQ.
. Scroll to the far right, until you see the *SearchIQ Enabled* attribute.
+ Set it to _Yes_ for each column enabled for SearchIQ.
+
image::worksheet-column-enable-searchiq.png[]

. Change the *Entity Category* for the columns you marked *SearchIQ Enabled*, from _default_ to one that accurately describes the column.
+
See link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/data-modeling/set-entity-category.html[Set Entity Categories].
The category options are _default_, _person_, _replace_, _time_, _money_, _product_, _zip_code_, _lat_long_, _company_org_, and _num_types_.
+
image::worksheet-column-entity-categories-searchiq.png[]

. Add *Synonyms* for all columns you marked *SearchIQ Enabled*, simply by typing them in the appropriate cell.
See link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/data-modeling/change-visibility-synonym.html[Add common synonyms] for more information.
+
image::worksheet-column-synonyms-searchiq.png[]

. Change the *Index Type* to `DONT_INDEX` for columns when they must be excluded from indexing.
We recommend excluding a column when it is descriptive in nature, =contains a large amount of text, has link:{{ site.baseurl }}/reference/stop-words.html[stop words], or for a variety of similar reason.
See link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/data-modeling/change-index.html[Turn off indexing].
+
image::data-modeling-columns-indextype-dont-index.png[]
+
This prevents SearchIQ from scanning through large amounts of text to understand what user asked.
Note that searches on text fields that use the `contains` keyword still work.
+
image::worksheet-column-do-not-index-searchiq.png[]

. Change the *Index Type* for columns that represent formulas with categorical values to `PREFIX_AND_SUBSTRING`.
See link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/data-modeling/change-index.html[Turn off indexing].
+
image::data-modeling-columns-indextype-prefix-substring.png[]
+
image::worksheet-column-prefix-and-substring-searchiq.png[]

. Rename the columns to have names that are shorter (maximum three words), and easier for business users to understand.
+
image::worksheet-column-rename.png[]

. Click *Save Changes*.

Commit message:

cleaned image and link syntax in Enable Columns for SearchIQ
Signed-off-by: naomi.lattanzi <naomi.lattanzi@thoughtspot.com>

software/modules/docs/pages/searchiq-optimize-columns.adoc, after:

= Enable Columns for SearchIQ
:last_updated: 11/19/2019

Allow users to use SearchIQ by enabling SearchIQ for the columns of the data source.

SearchIQ is in [.label.label-beta]#Beta#.

NOTE: SearchIQ is turned off by default.
ThoughtSpot Support can enable it for you.
SearchIQ is only available in English.

Before enabling columns, keep in mind these points, and other in-product guidelines:

* Enable no more than fifteen (15) columns for SearchIQ.
* Enable at most one (1) date column.
* Column names should not contain more than 3 words.
* Name the columns well, by optimizing for business users.
For example, use _Opportunity Cost_ and avoid `opp_cst`.
* Avoid indexing descriptive columns, ones that contain more than seven (7) words, or contain values with stop words, such as _is_, _are_, _the_, _what_, and so on).
See the xref:stop-words.adoc[Stop Words] reference for the full list of stop words.
* For columns that represent formulas with categorical values, set the *Indexing Type* to `PREFIX_AND_SUBSTRING`.

To enable columns in a worksheet for SearchIQ, follow these steps:

. Click *Data* on top navigation bar.
. Click *Tables*.
. Click *Worksheets*.
. Select and open the worksheet you want to enable for SearchIQ.
. Scroll to the far right, until you see the *SearchIQ Enabled* attribute.
+
Set it to _Yes_ for each column enabled for SearchIQ.
+
image::worksheet-column-enable-searchiq.png[]

. Change the *Entity Category* for the columns you marked *SearchIQ Enabled*, from _default_ to one that accurately describes the column.
+
See xref:set-entity-category.adoc[Set Entity Categories].
The category options are _default_, _person_, _replace_, _time_, _money_, _product_, _zip_code_, _lat_long_, _company_org_, and _num_types_.
+
image::worksheet-column-entity-categories-searchiq.png[]

. Add *Synonyms* for all columns you marked *SearchIQ Enabled*, simply by typing them in the appropriate cell.
See xref:change-visibility-synonym.adoc[Add common synonyms] for more information.
+
image::worksheet-column-synonyms-searchiq.png[]

. Change the *Index Type* to `DONT_INDEX` for columns when they must be excluded from indexing.
We recommend excluding a column when it is descriptive in nature, contains a large amount of text, has xref:stop-words.adoc[stop words], or for a variety of similar reason.
See xref:change-index.adoc[Turn off indexing].
+
image::data-modeling-columns-indextype-dont-index.png[]
+
This prevents SearchIQ from scanning through large amounts of text to understand what user asked.
Note that searches on text fields that use the `contains` keyword still work.
+
image::worksheet-column-do-not-index-searchiq.png[]

. Change the *Index Type* for columns that represent formulas with categorical values to `PREFIX_AND_SUBSTRING`.
See xref:change-index.adoc[Turn off indexing].
+
image::data-modeling-columns-indextype-prefix-substring.png[]
+
image::worksheet-column-prefix-and-substring-searchiq.png[]

. Rename the columns to have names that are shorter (maximum three words), and easier for business users to understand.
+
image::worksheet-column-rename.png[]

. Click *Save Changes*.
