software/modules/docs/pages/set-format-pattern-numbers.adoc, before:

= Set number, date, and currency formats

Learn how to set key formats for column values.

You can set number, date, and currency display formats.
These formats define how these value types display in tables and charts.

== Number formats

You can set a format for how numbers are displayed in tables and charts.
For example, you can display numbers with a different number of digits after the decimal point, based on the data modeling setting *Format Pattern*.
You can use any of the supported number formats for delimiters and number of digits to show using http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/text/DecimalFormat.html[Java Decimal Notation].
Currency symbols are not supported.

The system has default values which are:

[cols="10%,90%""]
|===
| `\#,###`
| For integer data types `INT` and `BIGINT`.
As you can see, these can only contain numbers, alpha characters are not permitted.

| `\#,###.00`
| for decimal data types `DOUBLE` and `FLOAT`.
|===

These are some examples of formats you can use:

|===
| Stored Value | Format Pattern | Display Value

| 12345.6789
| `+#,##0.##+`
| 12,345.68

| 12345.6789
| `+#,##0.###+`
| 12,345.679

| 12345.6789
| `+#,##0.00000+`
| 12,345.68

| 12345.6789
| `+#,##0+`
| 12,345

| 12345.6789
| `+#,##0.00+`
| 12,345.68

| 12345
| `+#,##0.##+`
| 12,345

| 12345
| `+#,##0.00+`
| 12,345.00
|===

&nbsp;

You can change the date format used to display a column's values xref:model-data-in-UI.adoc[for a single table] or, by editing the data model, for link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/data-modeling/edit-model-file.html[the entire ThoughtSpot instance].
Editing the data model file requires that you have administrative privileges.

. Decide if the change is for a table or the entire instance.
. Find the *Format Pattern* for the column.
+
This is either a column in a single table or a column in the data modeling file.

. In the column, enter the format you want to use.
. Save your changes.
+
If you are using a data-modeling file you must upload the new file to your installation.

=== Profile-based number formatting

Number formatting is set by default based on your ThoughtSpot profile's *Preferred locale* setting.
You can set this value to accommodate your geographic locations.

image::profile-locale.png[]

For example, if you are using ThoughtSpot in the US, the number formatting should look like this: `xxx,xxx.xx`.
And in Europe, it should look like this: `xxx.xxx,xx`.

== Date formats

*Format Pattern* (UI)/ *Format Pattern* (model file) formats for how dates are displayed in tables and charts.
For example, you can display dates in a standard European or US format based on the data modeling setting *Format Pattern*.
These are some examples of formats you can use:

include::partial$data-modeling-strings.adoc[]

To change the date format used to display a column's values xref:model-data-in-UI.adoc[for a single table] or, by editing the data model, for xref:edit-model-file.adoc[the entire ThoughtSpot instance].

. Decide if the change is for a table or the entire instance.
. Find the *Format Pattern* for the column.
+
This is either a column in a single table or a column in the data modeling file.

. In the column, enter the format you want to use.
. Save your changes.
+
If you are using a data-modeling file you must upload the new file to your installation.

== Set currency type

You can set a format for how currencies display in tables and charts when using the ThoughtSpot Data API or embedding.
For example, you can display currencies in a standard European Euro or US Dollar format, based on the data modeling setting *Currency Type*.

You can change the currency format used to display a column's values xref:model-data-in-UI.adoc[for a single table].
When you specify the currency type of your data in the *Columns* settings, your currency data will only display the correct format and currency code in the embedded use case.
Currency specific symbols are available in the non-embedded use case as well, but they are not localized.

All users are treated as if they are in `en-US` locale unless they are in embed mode and their browser configuration tells ThoughtSpot that they are in some other locale.
For example, `100 Polish Zloty` appears as `100zł` to a user in Poland, but without localization enabled, it appears as `PLN 100`.

This subtle difference can be seen when you use the REST API.
See the ThoughtSpot Application Integration Guide for more information on the API.

. Find the *Currency Type* for the column whose display format you want to change.
. Click it to open the *Specify Currency Type* menu.
+
image::specify_currency_type.png[]

. Select one of the following ways you would like to change the format.
+
[width="100%",options="header",cols="20%,80%"]
|===
| Option | Description

| *Infer From Browser*
| Your currency data will be modeled upon the locale of your browser setting.

| *From a column*
| Your currency data will be modeled upon the existing currency information in the selected column.
This option is disabled if there is no `VARCHAR` column to choose from.

| *Specify ISO Code*
| Your currency data will be modeled upon your selection from the available currency code choices.
|===

. Click *Ok* to save your changes.

== Related information

xref:about-data-modeling-intro.adoc[Model the data for searching]

Commit message:

date formatting
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/docs/pages/set-format-pattern-numbers.adoc, after:

= Set number, date, and currency formats
:linkattrs:
:last_updated: 8/13/2021

Learn how to set key formats for column values.

You can set number, date, and currency display formats.
These formats define how these value types display in tables and charts.

== Number formats

You can set a format for how numbers are displayed in tables and charts.
For example, you can display numbers with a different number of digits after the decimal point, based on the data modeling setting *Format Pattern*.
You can use any of the supported number formats for delimiters and number of digits to show using http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/text/DecimalFormat.html[Java Decimal Notation].
Currency symbols are not supported.

The system has default values which are:

[cols="10%,90%""]
|===
| `\#,###`
| For integer data types `INT` and `BIGINT`.
As you can see, these can only contain numbers, alpha characters are not permitted.

| `\#,###.00`
| for decimal data types `DOUBLE` and `FLOAT`.
|===

These are some examples of formats you can use:

|===
| Stored Value | Format Pattern | Display Value

| 12345.6789
| `+#,##0.##+`
| 12,345.68

| 12345.6789
| `+#,##0.###+`
| 12,345.679

| 12345.6789
| `+#,##0.00000+`
| 12,345.67890

| 12345.6789
| `+#,##0+`
| 12,346

| 12345.6789
| `+#,##0.00+`
| 12,345.68

| 12345
| `+#,##0.##+`
| 12,345

| 12345
| `+#,##0.00+`
| 12,345.00
|===


=== Profile-based number formatting

Number formatting is set by default based on your ThoughtSpot profile's *Preferred locale* setting.
You can set this value to accommodate your geographic locations.

image::profile-locale.png[]

For example, if you are using ThoughtSpot in the US, the number formatting should look like this: `xxx,xxx.xx`.
And in Europe, it should look like this: `xxx.xxx,xx`.

== Date formats

The *Format Pattern* option in the UI or in the model file allows you to specify how ThoughtSpot should display dates in tables and charts.
For example, you can display dates in a standard European or US format based on the data modeling setting *Format Pattern*.
These are some examples of formats you can use:

include::partial$data-modeling-strings.adoc[]

You can change the date format used to display a column's values xref:model-data-in-UI.adoc[for a single table or Worksheet] or, by editing the data model, for xref:edit-model-file.adoc[the entire ThoughtSpot instance]. To edit the data model file, you must have administrative privileges. To change the date format, follow these steps:

. Decide if the change is for a table or Worksheet, or for the entire instance.
. Find the *Format Pattern* for the column.
+
This is either a column in a single table or Worksheet, or a column in the data modeling file.

. In the column, enter the format you want to use.
. Save your changes.
+
If you are using a data-modeling file you must upload the new file to your installation.

NOTE: You can see this custom date formatting when you use the `date detailed` keyword. Other date buckets, such as `monthly` or `weekly`, use the standard format. For daily datess, ThoughtSpot uses each other user's locale to determine whether to display `mm/dd/yyyy` or `dd/mm/yyyy`.

== Set currency type

You can set a format for how currencies display in tables and charts when using the ThoughtSpot Data API or embedding.
For example, you can display currencies in a standard European Euro or US Dollar format, based on the data modeling setting *Currency Type*.

You can change the currency format used to display a column's values xref:model-data-in-UI.adoc[for a single table].
When you specify the currency type of your data in the *Columns* settings, your currency data will only display the correct format and currency code in the embedded use case.
Currency specific symbols are available in the non-embedded use case as well, but they are not localized.

All users are treated as if they are in `en-US` locale unless they are in embed mode and their browser configuration tells ThoughtSpot that they are in some other locale.
For example, `100 Polish Zloty` appears as `100zł` to a user in Poland, but without localization enabled, it appears as `PLN 100`.

This subtle difference can be seen when you use the REST API.
See the ThoughtSpot Application Integration Guide for more information on the API.

. Find the *Currency Type* for the column whose display format you want to change.
. Click it to open the *Specify Currency Type* menu.
+
image::specify_currency_type.png[]

. Select one of the following ways you would like to change the format.
+
[width="100%",options="header",cols="20%,80%"]
|===
| Option | Description

| *Infer From Browser*
| Your currency data will be modeled upon the locale of your browser setting.

| *From a column*
| Your currency data will be modeled upon the existing currency information in the selected column.
This option is disabled if there is no `VARCHAR` column to choose from.

| *Specify ISO Code*
| Your currency data will be modeled upon your selection from the available currency code choices.
|===

. Click *Ok* to save your changes.

== Related information

xref:about-data-modeling-intro.adoc[Model the data for searching]
