software/modules/docs/pages/what-you-can-find-in-the-help-center.adoc, before:

= More help and support
:last_updated: 04/15/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

There are many locations on the web where you can find help for ThoughtSpot.

There are multiple locations inside and outside the ThoughtSpot application where you can get more help.
This page describes some of the ways to get more help inside or outside of the application interface.

Each version of ThoughtSpot has its own documentation set.
ThoughtSpot releases new documentation sets for every major release version (`x.y`) of ThoughtSpot.
Documentation features added with minor versions (`x.y.z`) are added to the corresponding major release.
This means, for example, that new documentation for the 6.0.1 minor release version appears in the 6.0 major version documentation.

TIP: ThoughtSpot supplies release notes for every major release and every minor release version (`x.y.z`).

== Help menu

You can navigate directly to this documentation site on the web by entering https://docs.thoughtspot.com[docs.thoughtspot.com] in your browser's address bar.
You can see the documentation for the latest version of the product, and for other versions.

You can navigate to this documentation from inside the ThoughtSpot application as well.
In this case, the application links directly to the documentation version that matches your product version.
Click the help icon image:icon-help-20px.png[] next to your profile, and select *Help*.

image:help-menus.png[The help menu]

At the bottom of the *Help* dialog box, you can see a link to ask the ThoughtSpot community a question, a link to submit a case to ThoughtSpot Support, and the version of ThoughtSpot you are using.

== Information Center

The *Information Center* teaches you about ThoughtSpot through a navigation overview and a series of short videos.
You can show or hide the Information Center from the help menu.
To show or hide it for your whole organization, contact https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support,window="_blank"].

Refer to xref:getting-started.adoc[Information Center].

== Community

The *Community* link in the *Help* menu takes you to the https://community.thoughtspot.com[ThoughtSpot Community, window=_blank] website, where you can ask ThoughtSpot experts questions, share your own ideas and feedback, and meet others.

== Learn

Choosing *Learn* from the *Help* menu takes you to the _Learn_ center.
The center contains example queries that you can replay to learn how to search in ThoughtSpot.
Note that you can only replay queries if you have access to their data.

Click an item in Learn to replay it in ThoughtSpot.
During a replay, you can click `Pause` or `Resume` or click `ESC` to exit the replay.

Any administrator can add to the items in the *Learn* center.
To add a replay, do the following:

. Search in your search bar.
. Select the pin icon image:icon-pin-20px.png[].
The system lists the pinboards you can pin to.
. Select the *Learn how to use ThoughtSpot* pinboard.
+
image:gettingstarted-learn.png[Add to the Learn pinboard]

. Navigate to the _Learn_ center to replay your search.
+
image:gettingstarted-learnpage.png[The Learn center]

////
## Search the help in search bar

You can search the help directly from the search bar with the `how to` and `help` keywords.

include::partial$keywords-help.adoc[]

The `how to` keyword takes you into the documentation only. The `help` keyword
allows you to jump directly into a product workflow.
////

== Expert requests

*Expert requests* takes you to the Expert Requests interface, where you can view your own questions or answer other users' questions.

image:expertrequests.png[Expert requests]

Refer to xref:ask-an-expert.adoc[Ask an Expert].

== Support contact information

If you still can't find what you're looking for, you can https://community.thoughtspot.com/s/[ask the ThoughtSpot community a question, window=_blank] or https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[submit a case to ThoughtSpot Support, window=_blank].

image:contact-support-community.png[Contact support or the ThoughtSpot community]

Commit message:

SCAL-52688: pendo allowlist
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/docs/pages/what-you-can-find-in-the-help-center.adoc, after:

= More help and support
:last_updated: 04/15/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

There are many locations on the web where you can find help for ThoughtSpot.

There are multiple locations inside and outside the ThoughtSpot application where you can get more help.
This page describes some of the ways to get more help inside or outside of the application interface.

Each version of ThoughtSpot has its own documentation set.
ThoughtSpot releases new documentation sets for every major release version (`x.y`) of ThoughtSpot.
Documentation features added with minor versions (`x.y.z`) are added to the corresponding major release.
This means, for example, that new documentation for the 6.0.1 minor release version appears in the 6.0 major version documentation.

TIP: ThoughtSpot supplies release notes for every major release and every minor release version (`x.y.z`).

== Help menu

You can navigate directly to this documentation site on the web by entering https://docs.thoughtspot.com[docs.thoughtspot.com] in your browser's address bar.
You can see the documentation for the latest version of the product, and for other versions.

You can navigate to this documentation from inside the ThoughtSpot application as well.
In this case, the application links directly to the documentation version that matches your product version.
Click the help icon image:icon-help-20px.png[] next to your profile, and select *Help*.

image:help-menus.png[The help menu]

At the bottom of the *Help* dialog box, you can see a link to ask the ThoughtSpot community a question, a link to submit a case to ThoughtSpot Support, and the version of ThoughtSpot you are using.

== Information Center

The *Information Center* teaches you about ThoughtSpot through a navigation overview and a series of short videos.
You can show or hide the Information Center from the help menu.
To show or hide it for your whole organization, contact https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support,window="_blank"].

The Information Center, and many other ThoughtSpot guides, are delivered through Pendo. Pendo is ThoughtSpot's system for delivery of in-product tips, short videos, and other training elements. Your firewall may automatically block Pendo. To ensure that you can view Pendo guides, ask your ThoughtSpot administrator to add Pendo to a list of allowed domains.

Refer to xref:getting-started.adoc[Information Center].

== Community

The *Community* link in the *Help* menu takes you to the https://community.thoughtspot.com[ThoughtSpot Community, window=_blank] website, where you can ask ThoughtSpot experts questions, share your own ideas and feedback, and meet others.

== Learn

Choosing *Learn* from the *Help* menu takes you to the _Learn_ center.
The center contains example queries that you can replay to learn how to search in ThoughtSpot.
Note that you can only replay queries if you have access to their data.

Click an item in Learn to replay it in ThoughtSpot.
During a replay, you can click `Pause` or `Resume` or click `ESC` to exit the replay.

Any administrator can add to the items in the *Learn* center.
To add a replay, do the following:

. Search in your search bar.
. Select the pin icon image:icon-pin-20px.png[].
The system lists the pinboards you can pin to.
. Select the *Learn how to use ThoughtSpot* pinboard.
+
image:gettingstarted-learn.png[Add to the Learn pinboard]

. Navigate to the _Learn_ center to replay your search.
+
image:gettingstarted-learnpage.png[The Learn center]

////
## Search the help in search bar

You can search the help directly from the search bar with the `how to` and `help` keywords.

include::partial$keywords-help.adoc[]

The `how to` keyword takes you into the documentation only. The `help` keyword
allows you to jump directly into a product workflow.
////

== Expert requests

*Expert requests* takes you to the Expert Requests interface, where you can view your own questions or answer other users' questions.

image:expertrequests.png[Expert requests]

Refer to xref:ask-an-expert.adoc[Ask an Expert].

== Support contact information

If you still can't find what you're looking for, you can https://community.thoughtspot.com/s/[ask the ThoughtSpot community a question, window=_blank] or https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[submit a case to ThoughtSpot Support, window=_blank].

image:contact-support-community.png[Contact support or the ThoughtSpot community]
