software/modules/docs/pages/worksheet-create.adoc, before:

= Creating worksheets
:last_updated: 06/21/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

[#worksheet-create]
== Create a worksheet

To create a new worksheet, follow these steps:

. Click *Data*, on the top navigation bar.
. Click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon], and select *Create worksheet*.
+
image::worksheet-create.png[Create a worksheet]

. <<worksheet-sources-columns,Add sources and columns>>.

[#worksheet-sources-columns]
== Add sources and columns to a worksheet

After creating a worksheet, you need to add the sources that contain the data.
A source is another name for a table.
The sources you choose are typically related to one another by foreign keys.

To add sources to your worksheet, follow these steps.
The worksheet creation UI also guides you through the process.

. Click the *+* icon next to *Sources*.
+
image::worksheet-create-add-sources.png[Add sources to your worksheet]

. Check the box next to each of the sources you want to include in the worksheet.
You can search for specific Views, imported data, or tables.
You can also select every data source that has a specific tag, like *Retail*.
+
Note that the list of sources only shows the data sources on which you have view or edit privileges.
+
image::worksheet-create-choose-sources.png[Choose sources]

. Choose the xref:worksheet-progressive-joins.adoc[worksheet join rule].
Either *apply joins progressively* or *apply all joins*.
Applying joins progressively speeds up performance.
. If you want to disable xref:security-rls-concept.adoc[Row Level Security] for this worksheet, check the checkbox to disable it.
. Click *CLOSE* to save your changes.
. Expand the table names under *Sources* and select the columns to add to the worksheet, by doing any of the following:
.. To add all of the columns from a table, click the table name and click *+ Add Columns*.
.. To add a single column, double-click its name.
.. To add multiple columns, Ctl+click each column you want to add and click *+ Add Columns*.

+
Note that after you add a column, non-related tables (those without a primary/foreign key relationship) become hidden.
If you are working with two tables that should be related, but are not, you can xref:relationships.adoc[add a relationship between them].
. (Optional) xref:join-worksheet-edit.adoc[Modify the join types] within the worksheet.
. (Optional) xref:worksheet-formula.adoc[].
. (Optional) xref:worksheet-filter.adoc[Create worksheet filters].
. Click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon], and select *Save*.
. In the Save Worksheet window, enter a name and description for your worksheet and click *SAVE*.
. (Optional) Click each column name and enter a more user-friendly name for searching.
You can tab through the list of columns to rename them quickly.
. (Optional) If you want to add a prefix to the name of several columns, select them, click the *Add prefix* button, and type in the prefix.
+
image::worksheet-create-add-prefix.png[Add a prefix to column names]

. Click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon], and select *Save*.
. xref:share-worksheets.adoc[Share your worksheet], if you want other people to be able to use it.

== Where to go next

* *xref:worksheet-progressive-joins.adoc[How the worksheet join rule works]*  Use the worksheet join rule to specify when to apply joins when a search is done on a worksheet.
You can either apply joins progressively, as each search term is added (recommended), or apply all joins to every search.

Commit message:

SCAL-90389 worksheet multiple join path needs review
Signed-off-by: Teresa Killmond <teresa.killmond@thoughtspot.com>

software/modules/docs/pages/worksheet-create.adoc, after:

= Creating worksheets
:last_updated: 06/21/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

[#worksheet-create]
== Create a worksheet

To create a new worksheet, follow these steps:

. Click *Data*, on the top navigation bar.
. Click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon], and select *Create worksheet*.
+
image::worksheet-create.png[Create a worksheet]

. <<worksheet-sources-columns,Add sources and columns>>.

[#worksheet-sources-columns]
== Add sources and columns to a worksheet

After creating a worksheet, you need to add the sources that contain the data.
A source is another name for a table.
The sources you choose are typically related to one another by foreign keys.

To add sources to your worksheet, follow these steps.
The worksheet creation UI also guides you through the process.

. Click the *+* icon next to *Sources*.
+
image::worksheet-create-add-sources.png[Add sources to your worksheet]

. Check the box next to each of the sources you want to include in the worksheet.
You can search for specific Views, imported data, or tables.
You can also select every data source that has a specific tag, like *Retail*.
+
Note that the list of sources only shows the data sources on which you have view or edit privileges.
+
image::worksheet-create-choose-sources.png[Choose sources]

. Choose the xref:worksheet-progressive-joins.adoc[worksheet join rule].
Either *apply joins progressively* or *apply all joins*.
Applying joins progressively speeds up performance.
. If you want to disable xref:security-rls-concept.adoc[Row Level Security] for this worksheet, check the checkbox to disable it.
. Click *CLOSE* to save your changes.
. Expand the table names under *Sources* and select the columns to add to the worksheet, by doing any of the following:
.. To add all of the columns from a table, click the table name and click *+ Add Columns*.
.. To add a single column, double-click its name.
.. To add multiple columns, Ctl+click each column you want to add and click *+ Add Columns*.

+
Note that after you add a column, non-related tables (those without a primary/foreign key relationship) become hidden.
If you are working with two tables that should be related, but are not, you can xref:relationships.adoc[add a relationship between them].

+
NOTE: ThoughtSpot supports multiple join paths for worksheets. For example, you may have a fact table joined to a dimension table more than once. When adding attribute columns from that dimension table to your worksheet, ThoughtSpot prompts you to choose which join path you would like to use for that column. To use multiple join paths, select that attribute again, modify the name, and choose the other join path when ThoughtSpot prompts you to select one.

. (Optional) xref:join-worksheet-edit.adoc[Modify the join types] within the worksheet.
. (Optional) xref:worksheet-formula.adoc[].
. (Optional) xref:worksheet-filter.adoc[Create worksheet filters].
. Click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon], and select *Save*.
. In the Save Worksheet window, enter a name and description for your worksheet and click *SAVE*.
. (Optional) Click each column name and enter a more user-friendly name for searching.
You can tab through the list of columns to rename them quickly.
. (Optional) If you want to add a prefix to the name of several columns, select them, click the *Add prefix* button, and type in the prefix.
+
image::worksheet-create-add-prefix.png[Add a prefix to column names]

. Click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon], and select *Save*.
. xref:share-worksheets.adoc[Share your worksheet], if you want other people to be able to use it.

== Where to go next

* *xref:worksheet-progressive-joins.adoc[How the worksheet join rule works]*  Use the worksheet join rule to specify when to apply joins when a search is done on a worksheet.
You can either apply joins progressively, as each search term is added (recommended), or apply all joins to every search.
