cloud/modules/ROOT/pages/connections-databricks-remap.adoc, before:

= ["Remap a Databricks connection"]
:last_updated: 6/7/2022
:permalink: /:collection/:path.html
:sidebar: mydoc_sidebar
:toc: true

Modify the connection parameters by editing the source mapping `yaml` file that was created when you added the connection.
For example, you can remap the existing table or column to a different table or column in an existing database connection.
ThoughtSpot recommends that you check the dependencies before and after you remap a table or column in a connection to ensure they display as intended.

To remap a Databricks connection:

. Click *Data* in the top navigation bar.
. Click the *Connections* tab at the top of the page.
. Click the name of the connection you want to remap.
+
// [Select connection]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/adw-select-connection.png "select Connection")
. Click the More Info icon image:{{ site.baseurl }}/images/icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Remapping* on the upper-right-hand side of the page.
+
image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/databricks-remapping.png[Remap a connection]

. Click *Download* to download the source mapping file.
+
image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/databricks-downloadyaml.png["Download the source mapping file"]

. Edit the file, as required, and save it.
// []({{ site.baseurl }}/images/embrace-yaml.png "Edit yaml")
. Finally, click *Browse your files*, and upload your edited mapping file to update the mapping of your connection.

To remove a table from a connection, delete it from the connection details page.
For more information, see: link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/ts-cloud/ts-cloud-embrace-databricks-delete-connection.html[Delete a Databricks connection].

See the link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/ts-cloud/ts-cloud-embrace-databricks-connection-reference.html[Connection reference] for details of connection parameters.

Commit message:

cleaned up connections articles
Signed-off-by: Mark Plummer <mark.plummer@thoughtspot.com>

cloud/modules/ROOT/pages/connections-databricks-remap.adoc, after:

= Remap a Databricks connection
:last_updated: 6/7/2022
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

Modify the connection parameters by editing the source mapping `yaml` file that was created when you added the connection.
For example, you can remap the existing table or column to a different table or column in an existing database connection.
ThoughtSpot recommends that you check the dependencies before and after you remap a table or column in a connection to ensure they display as intended.

To remap a Databricks connection:

. Click *Data* in the top navigation bar.
. Click the *Connections* tab at the top of the page.
. Click the name of the connection you want to remap.
+
. Click the More Info icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Remapping* on the upper-right-hand side of the page.
+
image::databricks-remapping.png[Remap a connection]

. Click *Download* to download the source mapping file.
+
image::databricks-downloadyaml.png[Download the source mapping file]

. Edit the file, as required, and save it.
. Finally, click *Browse your files*, and upload your edited mapping file to update the mapping of your connection.

To remove a table from a connection, delete it from the connection details page.
For more information, see: xref:connections-databricks-delete.adoc[Delete a Databricks connection].

See the xref:connections-databricks-reference.adoc[Connection reference] for details of connection parameters.
