cloud/modules/ROOT/pages/connections-cust-cal-update.adoc, before:

= ["Update a custom calendar"]
:last_updated: 5/5/2021
:permalink: /:collection/:path.html
:sidebar: mydoc_sidebar
:toc: true

After you create a custom calendar, you can update it the following ways:

* *Replace* it with a completely new calendar you create in the ThoughtSpot UI.
* *Upload* a comma, pipe, semicolon, or tab-delimited calendar file.
* Create a new calendar from an *Existing Table* that you specify.

Examples of things you can change:

* Language used for days of the week, and month
* Quarter and fiscal year name prefixes
* Starting date of the year
* Starting dates of quarters
* Starting day of the month
* Starting day of the week
* Separator used in the calendar

== Replacing a custom calendar

To replace your custom calendar, do the following:

. Click *Data* in the top navigation bar.
+
The Data Objects page appears.

. Click the More menu image:{{ site.baseurl }}/images/icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon], and select image:{{ site.baseurl }}/images/calendar.png[calendar icon]  *Custom calendar*.
+
The Custom calendar page appears.

. On the Custom calendar page, click the More menu image:{{ site.baseurl }}/images/icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] next to the custom calendar you want to update, and select *Update Calendar*.
. For Database, click the *Choose a database* menu, and select the database you want to use with your updated custom calendar.
. For Schema, click the *Choose a schema* menu, and select the schema you want to use with your updated custom calendar.
. Select *Replace*.
. For Table, enter a name for the table that will be created for your custom calendar.
. For Start Date, enter the date you want your custom calendar to start.
+
{% include important.html content="Both Start Date and End Date must be in _MM/DD/YYYY_ format." %}

. For End Date, enter the date you want your custom calendar to end.
. For Calendar Type, click the *Choose a calendar type* menu, and select the type of calendar you want to create.
Possible types include:
 ** MONTH_OFFSET
 ** FOUR_FOUR_FIVE
 ** FOUR_FIVE_FOUR
 ** FIVE_FOUR_FOUR
. For Monthly offset, click the menu and select a month.
. For Start day of week, click the menu and select a day.
. For Quarter name prefix, enter the prefix you'd like to use for quarter numbers.
+
Example: _Q_

. For Year name prefix, enter the prefix you'd like to use for years.
+
Example: _FY_

. Click *Create*.
+
The Custom calendar page appears again, with the message "Custom calendar created successfully!"

[#update-cal]
== Uploading a custom calendar

You can replace a custom calendar by uploading a calendar file in one of the following formats:

* Comma-separated
* Pipe-separated
* Tab-separated
* Semicolon-separated

=== Updating the calendar file

The easiest way to update a calendar file is to download an existing one, make changes to it, and then upload it.

To update your calendar file, do the following:

. Click *Data* in the top navigation bar.
+
The Data Objects page appears.

. Click the More menu image:{{ site.baseurl }}/images/icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon], and select image:{{ site.baseurl }}/images/calendar.png[calendar icon]  *Custom calendar*.
+
The Custom calendar page appears.

. Click the More menu image:{{ site.baseurl }}/images/icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] next to the custom calendar you want to update, and select *Download as CSV*.
. Open the file in a text editor, and remove the first 3 lines (which contain metadata).
. Make any other changes required, and save the file with a new name.
+
{% include important.html content="You must save the updated file with a new name, or you will not be able to update the calendar." %}

. Go to the next section to link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/ts-cloud/ts-cloud-embrace-cust-cal-update#upload-cal[upload your calendar file].

[#upload-cal]
=== Uploading your calendar file

To upload your new or updated calendar file, do the following:

. On the Custom calendar page, click the More menu image:{{ site.baseurl }}/images/icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] next to the custom calendar you want to update, and select *Update Calendar*.
. For Database, click the *Choose a database* menu, and select the database you want to use with your updated custom calendar.
. For Schema, click the *Choose a schema* menu, and select the schema you want to use with your updated custom calendar.
. Select *Upload File*.
. Click *Upload*, select the file, and upload it.
. For Separator, select the separator used in the updated calendar you are going to upload.
+
Options include Comma ( , ), Pipe ( | ), Semicolon ( ; ), and Tab.

. Click *Update*.
+
The Custom calendar page appears again, with the message "Custom calendar created successfully!"

== Create a new calendar from an existing table

To create a new calendar from an existing table, do the following:

. On the Custom calendar page, click the More menu image:{{ site.baseurl }}/images/icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] next to the custom calendar you want to update, and select *Update Calendar*.
. For Database, click the *Choose a database* menu, and select the database you want to use with your updated custom calendar.
. For Schema, click the *Choose a schema* menu, and select the schema you want to use with your updated custom calendar.
. Select *Existing Table*.
. For Table, select an external table to use for creating your custom calendar.
. Click *Create*.
+
The Custom calendar page appears again, with the message "Custom calendar created successfully!"

== Related information

link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/ts-cloud/ts-cloud-embrace-cust-cal-create.html#[Create a custom calendar] + link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/ts-cloud/ts-cloud-embrace-cust-cal-delete.html#[Delete a custom calendar] + link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/ts-cloud/ts-cloud-embrace-cust-cal.html#[Custom calendar overview] + link:{{ site.baseurl }}/advanced-search/formulas/date-formulas.html#fiscal-and-gregorian-calendars[Fiscal and Gregorian calendars]

Commit message:

cleaned up connections articles
Signed-off-by: Mark Plummer <mark.plummer@thoughtspot.com>

cloud/modules/ROOT/pages/connections-cust-cal-update.adoc, after:

= Update a custom calendar
:last_updated: 5/5/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

After you create a custom calendar, you can update it the following ways:

* *Replace* it with a completely new calendar you create in the ThoughtSpot UI.
* *Upload* a comma, pipe, semicolon, or tab-delimited calendar file.
* Create a new calendar from an *Existing Table* that you specify.

Examples of things you can change:

* Language used for days of the week, and month
* Quarter and fiscal year name prefixes
* Starting date of the year
* Starting dates of quarters
* Starting day of the month
* Starting day of the week
* Separator used in the calendar

== Replacing a custom calendar

To replace your custom calendar, do the following:

. Click *Data* in the top navigation bar.
+
The Data Objects page appears.

. Click the More menu image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon], and select image:calendar.png[calendar icon] *Custom calendar*.
+
The Custom calendar page appears.

. On the Custom calendar page, click the More menu image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] next to the custom calendar you want to update, and select *Update Calendar*.
. For Database, click the *Choose a database* menu, and select the database you want to use with your updated custom calendar.
. For Schema, click the *Choose a schema* menu, and select the schema you want to use with your updated custom calendar.
. Select *Replace*.
. For Table, enter a name for the table that will be created for your custom calendar.
. For Start Date, enter the date you want your custom calendar to start.
+
IMPORTANT: Both Start Date and End Date must be in _MM/DD/YYYY_ format.

. For End Date, enter the date you want your custom calendar to end.
. For Calendar Type, click the *Choose a calendar type* menu, and select the type of calendar you want to create.
Possible types include:
 ** MONTH_OFFSET
 ** FOUR_FOUR_FIVE
 ** FOUR_FIVE_FOUR
 ** FIVE_FOUR_FOUR
. For Monthly offset, click the menu and select a month.
. For Start day of week, click the menu and select a day.
. For Quarter name prefix, enter the prefix you'd like to use for quarter numbers.
+
Example: _Q_

. For Year name prefix, enter the prefix you'd like to use for years.
+
Example: _FY_

. Click *Create*.
+
The Custom calendar page appears again, with the message "Custom calendar created successfully!"

[#update-cal]
== Uploading a custom calendar

You can replace a custom calendar by uploading a calendar file in one of the following formats:

* Comma-separated
* Pipe-separated
* Tab-separated
* Semicolon-separated

=== Updating the calendar file

The easiest way to update a calendar file is to download an existing one, make changes to it, and then upload it.

To update your calendar file, do the following:

. Click *Data* in the top navigation bar.
+
The Data Objects page appears.

. Click the More menu image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon], and select image:calendar.png[calendar icon] *Custom calendar*.
+
The Custom calendar page appears.

. Click the More menu image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] next to the custom calendar you want to update, and select *Download as CSV*.
. Open the file in a text editor, and remove the first 3 lines (which contain metadata).
. Make any other changes required, and save the file with a new name.
+
{% include important.html content="You must save the updated file with a new name, or you will not be able to update the calendar." %}

. Go to the next section to xref:connections-cust-cal-update.adoc#upload-cal[upload your calendar file].

[#upload-cal]
=== Uploading your calendar file

To upload your new or updated calendar file, do the following:

. On the Custom calendar page, click the More menu image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] next to the custom calendar you want to update, and select *Update Calendar*.
. For Database, click the *Choose a database* menu, and select the database you want to use with your updated custom calendar.
. For Schema, click the *Choose a schema* menu, and select the schema you want to use with your updated custom calendar.
. Select *Upload File*.
. Click *Upload*, select the file, and upload it.
. For Separator, select the separator used in the updated calendar you are going to upload.
+
Options include Comma ( , ), Pipe ( | ), Semicolon ( ; ), and Tab.

. Click *Update*.
+
The Custom calendar page appears again, with the message "Custom calendar created successfully!"

== Create a new calendar from an existing table

To create a new calendar from an existing table, do the following:

. On the Custom calendar page, click the More menu image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] next to the custom calendar you want to update, and select *Update Calendar*.
. For Database, click the *Choose a database* menu, and select the database you want to use with your updated custom calendar.
. For Schema, click the *Choose a schema* menu, and select the schema you want to use with your updated custom calendar.
. Select *Existing Table*.
. For Table, select an external table to use for creating your custom calendar.
. Click *Create*.
+
The Custom calendar page appears again, with the message "Custom calendar created successfully!"

== Related information

xref:connections-cust-cal-create.adoc[Create a custom calendar] + xref:connections-cust-cal-delete.adoc[Delete a custom calendar] + xref:connections-cust-cal.adoc[Custom calendar overview] + xref:date-formulas.adoc#fiscal-and-gregorian-calendars[Fiscal and Gregorian calendars]
