cloud/modules/ROOT/pages/connections-hana-delete-table.adoc, before:

= ["Delete a table from an SAP HANA connection"]
:last_updated: 8/11/2020
:permalink: /:collection/:path.html
:sidebar: mydoc_sidebar
:toc: true

Whenever you try to remove a table in a connection, ThoughtSpot checks for dependencies and shows a list of dependent objects.
You can click the listed objects to delete them or remove the dependency.
Then you can remove the table.

To delete a table from an SAP HANA connection:

. Click *Data* in the top navigation bar.
. Click the *Connections* tab.
. Click the name of the connection that contains the table you want to delete.
. Find the table you want to delete in the list, and check the box next to its name.
. Click *Delete*, and then click *Delete* again to confirm.
+
image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/HANA-deletetable.png[Delete a connection table]
+
If you attempt to delete a table with dependent objects, the operation is blocked.
A _Cannot delete_ window appears, with a list of links to dependent objects.
See link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/ts-cloud/ts-cloud-embrace-hana-delete-table-dependencies.html[Deleting a table with dependent objects].

See the link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/ts-cloud/ts-cloud-embrace-hana-connection-reference.html[Connection reference] for details of connection parameters.

Commit message:

cleaned up connections articles
Signed-off-by: Mark Plummer <mark.plummer@thoughtspot.com>

cloud/modules/ROOT/pages/connections-hana-delete-table.adoc, after:

= Delete a table from an SAP HANA connection
:last_updated: 8/11/2020
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

Whenever you try to remove a table in a connection, ThoughtSpot checks for dependencies and shows a list of dependent objects.
You can click the listed objects to delete them or remove the dependency.
Then you can remove the table.

To delete a table from an SAP HANA connection:

. Click *Data* in the top navigation bar.
. Click the *Connections* tab.
. Click the name of the connection that contains the table you want to delete.
. Find the table you want to delete in the list, and check the box next to its name.
. Click *Delete*, and then click *Delete* again to confirm.
+
image::HANA-deletetable.png[Delete a connection table]
+
If you attempt to delete a table with dependent objects, the operation is blocked.
A _Cannot delete_ window appears, with a list of links to dependent objects.
See xref:connections-hana-delete-table-dependencies.adoc[Deleting a table with dependent objects].

See the xref:connections-hana-reference.adoc[Connection reference] for details of connection parameters.
