cloud/modules/ROOT/pages/connections-databricks-reference.adoc, before:

= ["Connection reference for Databricks"]
:last_updated: 6/7/2022
:permalink: /:collection/:path.html
:sidebar: mydoc_sidebar
:toc: true

You need specific information to establish a seamless and secure connection.
The following fields are required, except where noted.

If your Databricks is hosted on Microsoft Azure, see link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/ts-cloud/ts-cloud-embrace-databricks-connection-reference.html#databricks-azure[Databricks on Microsoft Azure connection reference].
+++<dlentry id="connection-name">+++Connection name::::  Enter a new Databricks connection name.+++</dlentry>++++++<dlentry id="connection-description">+++Connection description::::  Provide a short description of the connection.+++<i>+++(Optional)+++</i>++++++</dlentry>++++++<dlentry id="host">+++Host::::  Enter the Databricks server host name without the protocol.  Example: *dbs.example.cloud.databricks.com*+++</dlentry>++++++<dlentry id="http-path">+++HTTP Path::::  Enter the Databricks HTTP path.+++</dlentry>++++++<dlentry id="user">+++User::::  Email address associated with your Databricks account.+++</dlentry>++++++<dlentry id="password">+++Password::::  Specify the password of the Databricks account.+++</dlentry>+++

[#databricks-azure]
== Databricks on Microsoft Azure connection reference
+++<dlentry id="connection-name">+++Connection name::::  Enter a new Databricks connection name.+++</dlentry>++++++<dlentry id="connection-description">+++Connection description::::  Provide a short description of the connection.+++<i>+++(Optional)+++</i>++++++</dlentry>++++++<dlentry id="host">+++Host::::  Enter the Databricks server hostname.  For more information, see https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/databricks/integrations/bi/jdbc-odbc-bi#get-server-hostname-port-http-path-and-jdbc-url[Get server hostname, port, HTTP path, and JDBC URL].  Example: *abc-1234567890123456.78.azuredatabricks.net*+++</dlentry>++++++<dlentry id="http-path">+++HTTP Path::::  Enter the Databricks HTTP path.  For more information, see https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/databricks/integrations/bi/jdbc-odbc-bi#get-server-hostname-port-http-path-and-jdbc-url[Get server hostname, port, HTTP path, and JDBC URL].  Example: *sql/protocolv1/o/1234567890123456/7890-123456-abc789*+++</dlentry>++++++<dlentry id="user">+++User::::
Enter your login email to your Azure account.
If this does not work, try "`token`".+++</dlentry>++++++<dlentry id="password">+++Password::::
Enter your '`personal access token`' generated in Databricks.
This is not the password for your Azure account.  For more information, see https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/databricks/dev-tools/api/latest/authentication#--generate-a-personal-access-token[Generate a personal access token].+++</dlentry>+++

For detailed information on using ThoughtSpot with an Azure Databricks cluster, see https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/databricks/integrations/bi/thoughtspot[Microsoft Azure ThoughtSpot documentation]

Commit message:

cleaned up connections articles
Signed-off-by: Mark Plummer <mark.plummer@thoughtspot.com>

cloud/modules/ROOT/pages/connections-databricks-reference.adoc, after:

= Connection reference for Databricks
:last_updated: 6/7/2022
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

You need specific information to establish a seamless and secure connection.
The following fields are required, except where noted.

If your Databricks is hosted on Microsoft Azure, see xref:connections-embrace-databricks-reference.adoc#databricks-azure[Databricks on Microsoft Azure connection reference].

Connection name:: Enter a new Databricks connection name.
Connection description:: Provide a short description of the connection.
Host:: Enter the Databricks server host name without the protocol.  Example: *dbs.example.cloud.databricks.com*
HTTP Path:: Enter the Databricks HTTP path.
User:: Email address associated with your Databricks account.
Password:: Specify the password of the Databricks account.

[#databricks-azure]
== Databricks on Microsoft Azure connection reference

Connection name:: Enter a new Databricks connection name.
Connection description:: Provide a short description of the connection.
Host:: Enter the Databricks server hostname.  For more information, see https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/databricks/integrations/bi/jdbc-odbc-bi#get-server-hostname-port-http-path-and-jdbc-url[Get server hostname, port, HTTP path, and JDBC URL^].  Example: *abc-1234567890123456.78.azuredatabricks.net*
HTTP Path:: Enter the Databricks HTTP path.  For more information, see https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/databricks/integrations/bi/jdbc-odbc-bi#get-server-hostname-port-http-path-and-jdbc-url[Get server hostname, port, HTTP path, and JDBC URL^].  Example: *sql/protocolv1/o/1234567890123456/7890-123456-abc789*
User:: Enter your login email to your Azure account.
If this does not work, try "`token`".
Password:: Enter your '`personal access token`' generated in Databricks.
This is not the password for your Azure account.  For more information, see https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/databricks/dev-tools/api/latest/authentication#--generate-a-personal-access-token[Generate a personal access token^].

For detailed information on using ThoughtSpot with an Azure Databricks cluster, see https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/databricks/integrations/bi/thoughtspot[Microsoft Azure ThoughtSpot documentation^]
