cloud/modules/ROOT/pages/connections-redshift-add.adoc, before:

= ["Add an Amazon RedShift connection"]
:last_updated: 4/13/2021
:permalink: /:collection/:path.html
:sidebar: mydoc_sidebar
:toc: true

== Enabling SSL in Amazon Redshift

If you need to create a secure connection to Amazon Redshift, you must edit the "parameter group" assigned to your Redshift cluster and enable the _require_SSL_ flag.

To enable *FIPS-compliant SSL* mode, set both the _use_fips_ssl_ parameter and the _require_SSL_ parameter to *true* in the parameter group that is associated with your Redshift cluster.

For more information, see https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/mgmt/connecting-ssl-support.html[Connect using SSL] in Amazon's Redshift documentation.

== Adding a Redshift connection

To connect to Amazon Redshift:

. Click *Data* in the top navigation bar.
. Click the *Connections* tab at the top of the page, and click *+ Add connection* at the upper-right-hand side of the page.
+
// [Click "+ Add connection"]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/redshift-addconnection.png "Click "+ add connection"")

. Create a name for your connection, a description (optional), then select the Redshift connection type, and click *Continue*.
+
image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/embrace-redshift-connection-type-ts-cloud.png[Choose connection type]

. Enter the connection details for your Redshift data source.
+
image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/redshift-connectiondetails.png[Enter connection details]
+
Refer to the link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/ts-cloud/ts-cloud-embrace-redshift-connection-reference.html[Redshift connection reference] for more information on each of the specific attributes you must enter for your connection.

. (Optional) If you enabled SSL in your Redshift cluster, you must do the following:
 .. Click the *Advanced Config* menu to reveal the *Key* and *Value* fields.
 .. For Key, enter *SSL*.
 .. For Value, enter *True*.

+
To add more keys and values, click the plus sign (+), and enter them.
+
{% include note.html content="Any key-value pairs that you enter must be defined in your Redshift data source.
Key-value pairs are case-sensitive." %}
. Click *Continue*.
. Select tables (on the left) and the columns from each table (on the right), and then click *Create connection*.
+
image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/snowflake-selecttables.png[Select tables and columns]
+
Once the connection is added, you can search your Redshift database right away by clicking *Search now*.
+
image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/redshift-connectioncreated.png[The "connection created" screen]
+
Your new connection appears on the *Data* > *Connections* page.
You can click the name of your connection to view the tables and columns in your connection.

The connection you just created is a link to the external data source.
If there are any joins in the selected tables of the external data source, those are imported into ThoughtSpot.

You can now perform a live query on the selected tables and columns of your connection.
Because the selected tables and columns in your connection are linked, it may take a while to initially render the search results.
This is because ThoughtSpot does not cache linked data.
With linked data, ThoughtSpot queries the external database directly.

You can modify a Redshift connection in the following ways:

* link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/ts-cloud/ts-cloud-embrace-redshift-edit-connection.html[Edit an Amazon Redshift connection]
* link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/ts-cloud/ts-cloud-embrace-redshift-remap-connection.html[Remap an Amazon Redshift connection]
* link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/ts-cloud/ts-cloud-embrace-redshift-delete-table.html[Delete a table from an Amazon Redshift connection]
* link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/ts-cloud/ts-cloud-embrace-redshift-delete-table-dependencies.html[Delete a table with dependent objects]

You can also link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/ts-cloud/ts-cloud-embrace-redshift-delete-connection.html[Delete a connection].

See the link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/ts-cloud/ts-cloud-embrace-redshift-connection-reference.html[Connection reference] for details of connection parameters.

Commit message:

cleaned up connections articles
Signed-off-by: Mark Plummer <mark.plummer@thoughtspot.com>

cloud/modules/ROOT/pages/connections-redshift-add.adoc, after:

= Add an Amazon RedShift connection
:last_updated: 4/13/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

== Enabling SSL in Amazon Redshift

If you need to create a secure connection to Amazon Redshift, you must edit the "parameter group" assigned to your Redshift cluster and enable the _require_SSL_ flag.

To enable *FIPS-compliant SSL* mode, set both the _use_fips_ssl_ parameter and the _require_SSL_ parameter to *true* in the parameter group that is associated with your Redshift cluster.

For more information, see https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/mgmt/connecting-ssl-support.html[Connect using SSL^] in Amazon's Redshift documentation.

== Adding a Redshift connection

To connect to Amazon Redshift:

. Click *Data* in the top navigation bar.
. Click the *Connections* tab at the top of the page, and click *+ Add connection* at the upper-right-hand side of the page.
. Create a name for your connection, a description (optional), then select the Redshift connection type, and click *Continue*.
+
image::embrace-redshift-connection-type-ts-cloud.png[Choose connection type]

. Enter the connection details for your Redshift data source.
+
image::redshift-connectiondetails.png[Enter connection details]
+
Refer to the xref:connections-redshift-reference.adoc[Redshift connection reference] for more information on each of the specific attributes you must enter for your connection.

. (Optional) If you enabled SSL in your Redshift cluster, you must do the following:
 .. Click the *Advanced Config* menu to reveal the *Key* and *Value* fields.
 .. For Key, enter *SSL*.
 .. For Value, enter *True*.

+
To add more keys and values, click the plus sign (+), and enter them.
+
NOTE: Any key-value pairs that you enter must be defined in your Redshift data source.
Key-value pairs are case-sensitive.
. Click *Continue*.
. Select tables (on the left) and the columns from each table (on the right), and then click *Create connection*.
+
image::snowflake-selecttables.png[Select tables and columns]
+
Once the connection is added, you can search your Redshift database right away by clicking *Search now*.
+
image::redshift-connectioncreated.png[The "connection created" screen]
+
Your new connection appears on the *Data* > *Connections* page.
You can click the name of your connection to view the tables and columns in your connection.

The connection you just created is a link to the external data source.
If there are any joins in the selected tables of the external data source, those are imported into ThoughtSpot.

You can now perform a live query on the selected tables and columns of your connection.
Because the selected tables and columns in your connection are linked, it may take a while to initially render the search results.
This is because ThoughtSpot does not cache linked data.
With linked data, ThoughtSpot queries the external database directly.

You can modify a Redshift connection in the following ways:

* xref:connections-redshift-edit.adoc[Edit an Amazon Redshift connection]
* xref:connections-redshift-remap.adoc[Remap an Amazon Redshift connection]
* xref:connections-redshift-delete-table.adoc[Delete a table from an Amazon Redshift connection]
* xref:connections-redshift-delete-table-dependencies.adoc[Delete a table with dependent objects]

You can also xref:connections-redshift-delete.adoc[Delete a connection].

See the xref:connections-redshift-reference.adoc[Connection reference] for details of connection parameters.
