cloud/modules/ROOT/pages/groups.adoc, before:

= Managing Groups
:last_updated: 11/05/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:
:page-aliases:
:description: Manage user groups in ThoughtSpot.

include::partial$liveboards-announcement.adoc[]

Manage user groups in ThoughtSpot.

Before people can log in and use ThoughtSpot, you need to create a username, a password, and a membership in one or more groups for them.
Use the Admin Console to easily create and manage your user groups.

Refer to link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/users-groups/about-users-groups.html[Understand groups and privileges] to learn about the privileges you can assign to a user or group.

To manage groups, navigate to the Admin Console by clicking on the *Admin* tab from the top navigation bar.
Select *Groups* from the side navigation bar that appears.

image::admin-portal-groups.png[Admin Console - Groups]

You can use the Admin Console to accomplish the following tasks:

* *Create a group* by clicking on the *+ add group* button
* *Manage an existing group* by clicking on the group you would like to edit: change the group's default Liveboard, add an existing group to the group, add a user to the group, modify the group's privileges, or resend or test the welcome email
* *Delete a group* by hovering over a group name, clicking the checkbox that appears, and selecting the *Delete* button

== Related information

Refer to link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/users-groups/add-group.html[Create, edit, or delete a group] for more detail on how to create and manage groups.

Commit message:

users groups
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

cloud/modules/ROOT/pages/groups.adoc, after:

= Managing Groups
:last_updated: 11/05/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:
:page-aliases:
:description: Manage user groups in ThoughtSpot.

include::partial$liveboards-announcement.adoc[]

Manage user groups in ThoughtSpot.

Before people can log in and use ThoughtSpot, you need to create a username, a password, and a membership in one or more groups for them.
Use the Admin Console to easily create and manage your user groups.

Refer to xref:groups-privileges.adoc[Understand groups and privileges] to learn about the privileges you can assign to a user or group.

To manage groups, navigate to the Admin Console by clicking on the *Admin* tab from the top navigation bar.
Select *Groups* from the side navigation bar that appears.

image::admin-portal-groups.png[Admin Console - Groups]

You can use the Admin Console to accomplish the following tasks:

* *Create a group* by clicking on the *+ add group* button
* *Manage an existing group* by clicking on the group you would like to edit: change the group's default Liveboard, add an existing group to the group, add a user to the group, modify the group's privileges, or resend or test the welcome email
* *Delete a group* by hovering over a group name, clicking the checkbox that appears, and selecting the *Delete* button

== Related information

Refer to xref:group-management.adoc[Create, edit, or delete a group] for more detail on how to create and manage groups.
