software/modules/ROOT/partials/select-file.adoc, before:

. Immediately after creating a new connection, the connection detail page appears.
+
You can fill out this information immediately, or return to it at a later stage, by clicking on the connection name in the list of connections.

. On the connection detail page, click *Add table sync*.
. In the *Add table sync* interface, on the database selector, scroll to find the source file, and click to select it.
+
You can search for the file by name.
+
If you use multiple files, you have to repeat these steps for each file.

. In the file detail display, adjust the properties.
+
Before confirming that you plan to sync a file, examine it to ensure that it has the right information: the correct data types, and reasonable sample data.
+
For wide files, scroll to the right to see all columns.
[#file-parse-sync-properties-delimiter]
Column separator::
Specify the character that signals start of new column.
+
The options are _Comma(,)_ (default), _Semicolon(;)_, _Pipe(|)_, _Space_, _Tab_, or _Other_.
[#file-parse-sync-properties-header-row]
Header row::
Specify if file uses a header row.
[#file-parse-sync-properties-compression]
Compression::
Specify if file uses compression.
+
The options are _None_ (default), or _gzip_

. Click *Setup sync*.

Commit message:

xml file
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/ROOT/partials/select-file.adoc, after:

. Immediately after creating a new connection, the connection detail page appears.
+
You can fill out this information immediately, or return to it at a later stage, by clicking on the connection name in the list of connections.

. On the connection detail page, click *Add table sync*.
. In the *Add table sync* interface, on the database selector, scroll to find the source file, and click to select it.
+
You can search for the file by name.
+
If you use multiple files, you have to repeat these steps for each file.

. In the file detail display, adjust the properties.
+
Before confirming that you plan to sync a file, examine it to ensure that it has the right information: the correct data types, and reasonable sample data.
+
For wide files, scroll to the right to see all columns.

[#file-parse-sync-file-format]
File format::
Specify the format of the source file.
+
The options are _Delimited_, _Parquet_, _JSON_, _LDJSON_, _ORC_, _XML_ [.label.label-new]#New#, and _Avro_ [.label.label-new]#New#.
[#file-parse-sync-properties-delimiter]
Column separator::
Specify the character that signals start of new column.
+
The options are _Comma(,)_ (default), _Semicolon(;)_, _Pipe(|)_, _Space_, _Tab_, or _Other_.
[#file-parse-sync-properties-header-row]
Header row::
Specify if file uses a header row.
[#file-parse-sync-properties-compression]
Compression::
Specify if file uses compression.
+
The options are _None_ (default), or _gzip_

. Click *Set up sync*.
