software/modules/ROOT/partials/sync-scripts.adoc, before:

To use scripting before or after the sync, follow these steps:

. Open the *Advanced setup* interface by clicking the toggle to open.
. Choose the *Sync properties* tab.
. Scroll down to *Advanced configuration*, and click the toggle to expand.
. Specify the following information:
[#set-sync-pre-script]
Pre-script::
Add the script that you want to run *before* syncing. +
Optional field. +
For example, to drop data that is over 1 year old, enter the following expression: +
`DELETE from FACT_TABLE Where DATE < ADD_DAYS(TODAY(),-365)`. +
To find the correct functions for the script, click *Expression editor*, use it to create a valid command (or several commands), and click *OK*.
[#set-sync-post-script]
Post-script::
Add the script that you want to run *after* syncing. +
Optional field. +
For example, to drop data that is over 1 year old, enter the following expression: +
`DELETE from FACT_TABLE Where DATE < ADD_DAYS(TODAY(),-365)`. +
To find the correct functions for the script, click *Expression editor*, use it to create a valid command (or several commands), and click *OK*.
. Save your work by clicking *Save*. +
Alternatively, click *Save and sync now* to save your work and sync data at the same time.

Commit message:

wait for file
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/ROOT/partials/sync-scripts.adoc, after:

To use scripting before or after the sync, follow these steps:

. Open the *Advanced setup* interface by clicking the toggle to open.
. Choose the *Sync properties* tab.
. Scroll down to *Advanced configuration*, and click the toggle to expand.
. Specify the following information:
[#set-sync-file-trigger]
Wait for file::
Specify the fully-qualified name of the file (directory path and file name) that must be present before sync can start.
[#set-sync-pre-script]
Pre-script::
Add the script that you want to run *before* syncing. +
Optional field. +
For example, to drop data that is over 1 year old, enter the following expression: +
`DELETE from FACT_TABLE Where DATE < ADD_DAYS(TODAY(),-365)`. +
To find the correct functions for the script, click *Expression editor*, use it to create a valid command (or several commands), and click *OK*.
[#set-sync-post-script]
Post-script::
Add the script that you want to run *after* syncing. +
Optional field. +
For example, to drop data that is over 1 year old, enter the following expression: +
`DELETE from FACT_TABLE Where DATE < ADD_DAYS(TODAY(),-365)`. +
To find the correct functions for the script, click *Expression editor*, use it to create a valid command (or several commands), and click *OK*.
. Save your work by clicking *Save*. +
Alternatively, click *Save and sync now* to save your work and sync data at the same time.
