cloud/modules/ROOT/partials/includes/content/date-func.adoc, before:

+++<table>++++++<colgroup>++++++<col style="width:25%">++++++</col>+++
   +++<col style="width:25%">++++++</col>+++
   +++<col style="width:50%">++++++</col>++++++</colgroup>+++
  +++<thead>++++++<tr>++++++<th>+++Function+++</th>+++
      +++<th>+++Description+++</th>+++
      +++<th>+++Examples+++</th>++++++</tr>++++++</thead>+++
  +++<tbody>++++++<tr id="add_days">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++add_days+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the result of adding the specified number of days to the given date.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++add_days (01/30/2015, 5) = 02/04/2015+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++add_days (invoiced, 30)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="add_minutes">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++add_minutes+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the result of adding the specified number of minutes to the given date/datetime/time.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++add_minutes ( 01/30/2015 00:10:20 , 5 ) = 01/30/2015 00:15:20+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++add_minutes ( invoiced , 30 )+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="add_months">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++add_months+++</code>++++++</td>+++
    +++<td>+++Returns the result of adding the specified number of months to the given date.+++</td>+++
    +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++add_months ( 01/30/2015, 5 ) = 06/30/2015+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++add_months ( invoiced_date , 5 )+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="add_seconds">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++add_seconds+++</code>++++++</td>+++
    +++<td>+++Returns the result of adding the specified number of seconds to the given date/ datetime/ time.+++</td>+++
    +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++add_seconds ( 01/30/2015 00:00:00, 5 ) = 06/30/2015 00:00:05+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++add_seconds ( invoiced_date , 5 )+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="add_weeks">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++add_weeks+++</code>++++++</td>+++
    +++<td>+++Returns the result of adding the specified number of weeks to the given date.+++</td>+++
    +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++add_weeks ( 01/30/2015, 2 ) = 02/13/2015+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++add_weeks ( invoiced_date , 2 )+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="add_years">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++add_years+++</code>++++++</td>+++
    +++<td>+++Returns the result of adding the specified number of years to the given date.+++</td>+++
    +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++add_years ( 01/30/2015, 5 ) = 01/30/2020+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++add_years ( invoiced_date , 5 )+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="date">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++date+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the date portion of a given date.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++date (home visit)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="day">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++day+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the number (1-31) of the day of the month for the given date.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++day (01/15/2014) = 15+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++day (date ordered)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="day_number_of_quarter">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++day_number_of_quarter+++</code>++++++</td>+++
       +++<td>+++Returns the number of the day in a quarter for a given date. You can add an optional
        second parameter to specify whether a 'fiscal' or 'calendar' year is used to
        calculate the result. The default is 'calendar'.+++</td>+++
       +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++day_number_of_quarter (01/30/2015) = 30+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<br>++++++</br>+++
       In the following example, May 1st is the start of the fiscal year.+++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++day_number_of_quarter (01/30/2015, 'fiscal') = 91+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="day_number_of_week">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++day_number_of_week+++</code>++++++</td>+++
        +++<td>+++Returns the number (1-7) of the day in a week for a given date. Monday is 1, and Sunday is 7.+++</td>+++
       +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++day_number_of_week(01/15/2014) = 3+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++day_number_of_week (shipped)+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="day_number_of_year">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++day_number_of_year+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the number (1-366) of the day in a year from a given date. You can add an
      optional second parameter to specify whether a 'fiscal' or 'calendar' year is
      used to calculate the result. The default is 'calendar'.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++day_number_of_year (01/30/2015) = 30+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<br>++++++</br>+++
      In the following example, May 1st is the start of the fiscal year.+++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++day_number_of_year ( 01/30/2015, 'fiscal' ) = 275+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++day_number_of_year (invoiced)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="day_of_week">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++day_of_week+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the day of the week for the given date.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++day_of week (01/30/2015) = Friday+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++day_of_week (serviced)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="diff_days">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++diff_days+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Subtracts the second date from the first date and returns the result in number of days, rounded down if not exact.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++diff_days (01/15/2014, 01/17/2014) = -2+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++diff_days (purchased, shipped)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="diff_time">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++diff_time+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Subtracts the second date from the first date and returns the result in number of seconds.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++diff_time (01/30/2014, 01/31/2014) = -86,400+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++diff_time (clicked, submitted)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="hour_of_day">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++hour_of_day+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the hour of the day for the given date.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++hour_of_day (received)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="is_weekend">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++is_weekend+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns true if the given date falls on a Saturday or Sunday.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++is_weekend (01/31/2015) = true+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++is_weekend (emailed)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="month">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++month+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the month from the given date.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++month (01/15/2014) = January+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++month (date ordered)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="month_number">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++month_number+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the number (1-12) of the month from a given date. You can add an optional second
        parameter to specify whether a 'fiscal' or 'calendar' year is used to calculate
        the result. The default is 'calendar'.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++month_number (09/20/2014) = 9+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<br>++++++</br>+++
      In the following example, May 1st is the start of the fiscal year.+++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++month_number ( 09/20/2014, 'fiscal' ) = 5+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++month_number (purchased)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="month_number_of_quarter">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++month_number_of_quarter+++</code>++++++</td>+++
       +++<td>+++Returns the month (1-3) number for the given date in a quarter. You can add an optional
        second parameter to specify whether a 'fiscal' or 'calendar' year is used to
        calculate the result. The default is 'calendar'.+++</td>+++
       +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++month_number_of_quarter (02/20/2018) = 2 +++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<br>++++++</br>+++
       In the following example, May 1st is the start of the fiscal year.+++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++month_number_of_quarter (02/20/2018,'fiscal' ) = 1+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="now">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++now+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the current timestamp.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++now ()+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="quarter_number">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++quarter_number+++</code>++++++</td>+++
       +++<td>+++Returns the number (1-4) of the quarter associated with the given date. You can add an
        optional second parameter to specify 'fiscal' or 'calendar' dates. The default is
        'calendar'.+++</td>+++
       +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++quarter_number ( 04/14/2014) = 2 +++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<br>++++++</br>+++
       In the following example, May 1st is the start of the fiscal year.+++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++quarter_number ( 04/14/2014, 'fiscal' ) = 4+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++quarter_number ( shipped )+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="start_of_month">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++start_of_month+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns +++<code>+++MMM yyyy+++</code>+++ for the first day of the month. Your installation configuration can override this setting so that it returns a different format such as +++<code>+++MM/dd/yyyy+++</code>+++. Speak with your ThoughtSpot administrator for information on doing this.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++start_of_month ( 01/31/2015 ) = Jan FY 2015+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++start_of_month (shipped)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="start_of_quarter">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++start_of_quarter+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the date for the first day of the quarter for the given date. You can add an
      optional second parameter to specify whether a 'fiscal' or 'calendar' year is
      used to calculate the result. The default is 'calendar'.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++start_of_quarter ( 04/30/2014) = Apr 2014+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<br>++++++</br>+++
      In the following example, May 1st is the start of the fiscal year.+++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++start_of_quarter ( 04/30/2014, 'fiscal') = Feb 2014+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++start_of_quarter (sold)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="start_of_week">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++start_of_week+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the date for the first day of the week for the given date.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++start_of_week ( 01/31/2020 ) = 01/27/2020+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++start_of_week (emailed)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="start_of_year">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++start_of_year+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the date for the first day of the year for the given date. You can add an
      optional second parameter to specify whether a 'fiscal' or 'calendar' year is
      used to calculate the result. The default is 'calendar'.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++start_of_year (04/30/2014) returns Jan 2014+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<br>++++++</br>+++
      In the following example, May 1st is the start of the fiscal year.+++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++start_of_year (04/30/2014, 'fiscal') returns May 2013+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++start_of_year (joined)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="time">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++time+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the time portion of a given date.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++time (1/31/2002 10:32) = 10:32+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++time (call began)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="today">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++today+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the current date.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++today ()+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="week_number_of_month">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++week_number_of_month+++</code>++++++</td>+++
       +++<td>+++Returns the week number for the given date in a month.+++</td>+++
       +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++week_number_of_month(03/23/2017) = 3+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="week_number_of_quarter">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++week_number_of_quarter+++</code>++++++</td>+++
       +++<td>+++Returns the week number for the given date in a quarter. You can add an optional second
        parameter to specify whether a 'fiscal' or 'calendar' year is used to calculate
        the result. The default is 'calendar'.+++</td>+++
       +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++week_number_of_quarter (01/31/2020) = 5+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<br>++++++</br>+++
       In the following example, May 1st is the start of the fiscal year.+++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++week_number_of_quarter (05/31/2020, 'fiscal') = 5+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="week_number_of_year">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++week_number_of_year+++</code>++++++</td>+++
       +++<td>+++Returns the week number for the given date in a year. You can add an optional second
        parameter to specify whether a 'fiscal' or 'calendar' year is used to calculate
        the result. The default is 'calendar'.+++</td>+++
       +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++week_number_of_year (01/17/2014) = 3+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<br>++++++</br>+++
       In the following example, May 1st is the start of the fiscal year.+++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++week_number_of_year ( 01/17/2014, 'fiscal') = 38+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="year">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++year+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the year from a given date. You can add an optional second parameter to specify
      whether a 'fiscal' or 'calendar' year is used to calculate the result. The default
      is 'calendar'.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++year (01/15/2014) = 2014+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<br>++++++</br>+++
      In the following example, May 1st is the start of the fiscal year. Per standard
      convention, the fiscal year is defined by the year-end date.+++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++year (12/15/2013, 'fiscal' ) = 2014+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++year (date ordered)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>++++++</tbody>++++++</table>+++

Commit message:

diff functions
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

cloud/modules/ROOT/partials/includes/content/date-func.adoc, after:

+++<table>++++++<colgroup>++++++<col style="width:25%">++++++</col>+++
   +++<col style="width:25%">++++++</col>+++
   +++<col style="width:50%">++++++</col>++++++</colgroup>+++
  +++<thead>++++++<tr>++++++<th>+++Function+++</th>+++
      +++<th>+++Description+++</th>+++
      +++<th>+++Examples+++</th>++++++</tr>++++++</thead>+++
  +++<tbody>++++++<tr id="add_days">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++add_days+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the result of adding the specified number of days to the given date.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++add_days (01/30/2015, 5) = 02/04/2015+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++add_days (invoiced, 30)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="add_minutes">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++add_minutes+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the result of adding the specified number of minutes to the given date/datetime/time.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++add_minutes ( 01/30/2015 00:10:20 , 5 ) = 01/30/2015 00:15:20+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++add_minutes ( invoiced , 30 )+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="add_months">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++add_months+++</code>++++++</td>+++
    +++<td>+++Returns the result of adding the specified number of months to the given date.+++</td>+++
    +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++add_months ( 01/30/2015, 5 ) = 06/30/2015+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++add_months ( invoiced_date , 5 )+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="add_seconds">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++add_seconds+++</code>++++++</td>+++
    +++<td>+++Returns the result of adding the specified number of seconds to the given date/ datetime/ time.+++</td>+++
    +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++add_seconds ( 01/30/2015 00:00:00, 5 ) = 06/30/2015 00:00:05+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++add_seconds ( invoiced_date , 5 )+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="add_weeks">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++add_weeks+++</code>++++++</td>+++
    +++<td>+++Returns the result of adding the specified number of weeks to the given date.+++</td>+++
    +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++add_weeks ( 01/30/2015, 2 ) = 02/13/2015+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++add_weeks ( invoiced_date , 2 )+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="add_years">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++add_years+++</code>++++++</td>+++
    +++<td>+++Returns the result of adding the specified number of years to the given date.+++</td>+++
    +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++add_years ( 01/30/2015, 5 ) = 01/30/2020+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++add_years ( invoiced_date , 5 )+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="date">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++date+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the date portion of a given date.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++date (home visit)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="day">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++day+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the number (1-31) of the day of the month for the given date.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++day (01/15/2014) = 15+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++day (date ordered)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="day_number_of_quarter">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++day_number_of_quarter+++</code>++++++</td>+++
       +++<td>+++Returns the number of the day in a quarter for a given date. You can add an optional
        second parameter to specify whether a 'fiscal' or 'calendar' year is used to
        calculate the result. The default is 'calendar'.+++</td>+++
       +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++day_number_of_quarter (01/30/2015) = 30+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<br>++++++</br>+++
       In the following example, May 1st is the start of the fiscal year.+++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++day_number_of_quarter (01/30/2015, 'fiscal') = 91+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="day_number_of_week">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++day_number_of_week+++</code>++++++</td>+++
        +++<td>+++Returns the number (1-7) of the day in a week for a given date. Monday is 1, and Sunday is 7.+++</td>+++
       +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++day_number_of_week(01/15/2014) = 3+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++day_number_of_week (shipped)+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="day_number_of_year">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++day_number_of_year+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the number (1-366) of the day in a year from a given date. You can add an
      optional second parameter to specify whether a 'fiscal' or 'calendar' year is
      used to calculate the result. The default is 'calendar'.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++day_number_of_year (01/30/2015) = 30+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<br>++++++</br>+++
      In the following example, May 1st is the start of the fiscal year.+++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++day_number_of_year ( 01/30/2015, 'fiscal' ) = 275+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++day_number_of_year (invoiced)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="day_of_week">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++day_of_week+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the day of the week for the given date.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++day_of week (01/30/2015) = Friday+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++day_of_week (serviced)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="diff_days">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++diff_days+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Subtracts the second date from the first date and returns the result in number of days, rounded down if not exact.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++diff_days (01/15/2014, 01/17/2014) = -2+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++diff_days (purchased, shipped)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
+++<tr id="diff_weeks">+++
+++<td>+++`diff_weeks`+++</td>+++
+++<td>+++Subtracts the week of the second date from the week of the first date and returns the result in number of weeks.+++<br>++++++<br>+++Use the optional third parameter to specify if ThoughtSpot should use a custom calendar to calculate the result.+++</td>+++
+++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++diff_weeks (01/05/2014, 01/06/2014) = -1+++</code>++++++<br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++diff_weeks (01/06/2014, 01/12/2014) = 0+++</code>++++++<br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++diff_weeks (purchased, shipped)+++</code>++++++<br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++diff_weeks (purchased, shipped, fiscal)+++</code>++++++</td>+++
+++</tr>+++
+++<tr id="diff_years">+++
+++<td>++++++<code>+++diff_years+++</code>++++++</td>+++
+++<td>+++Subtracts the second date from the first date and returns the result in number of years.+++<br>++++++<br>+++
Use the optional third parameter to specify if ThoughtSpot should use a custom calendar to calculate the result.+++</td>+++
+++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++diff_years (12/25/2013, 01/01/2014) = -1+++</code>++++++<br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++diff_years (01/01/2014, 12/25/2014) = 0+++</code>++++++<br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++diff_years (purchased, shipped)+++</code>++++++<br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++diff_years (purchased, shipped, fiscal)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="diff_time">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++diff_time+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Subtracts the second date from the first date and returns the result in number of seconds.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++diff_time (01/30/2014, 01/31/2014) = -86,400+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++diff_time (clicked, submitted)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="hour_of_day">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++hour_of_day+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the hour of the day for the given date.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++hour_of_day (received)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="is_weekend">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++is_weekend+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns true if the given date falls on a Saturday or Sunday.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++is_weekend (01/31/2015) = true+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++is_weekend (emailed)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="month">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++month+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the month from the given date.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++month (01/15/2014) = January+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++month (date ordered)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="month_number">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++month_number+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the number (1-12) of the month from a given date. You can add an optional second
        parameter to specify whether a 'fiscal' or 'calendar' year is used to calculate
        the result. The default is 'calendar'.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++month_number (09/20/2014) = 9+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<br>++++++</br>+++
      In the following example, May 1st is the start of the fiscal year.+++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++month_number ( 09/20/2014, 'fiscal' ) = 5+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++month_number (purchased)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="month_number_of_quarter">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++month_number_of_quarter+++</code>++++++</td>+++
       +++<td>+++Returns the month (1-3) number for the given date in a quarter. You can add an optional
        second parameter to specify whether a 'fiscal' or 'calendar' year is used to
        calculate the result. The default is 'calendar'.+++</td>+++
       +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++month_number_of_quarter (02/20/2018) = 2 +++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<br>++++++</br>+++
       In the following example, May 1st is the start of the fiscal year.+++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++month_number_of_quarter (02/20/2018,'fiscal' ) = 1+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="now">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++now+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the current timestamp.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++now ()+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="quarter_number">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++quarter_number+++</code>++++++</td>+++
       +++<td>+++Returns the number (1-4) of the quarter associated with the given date. You can add an
        optional second parameter to specify 'fiscal' or 'calendar' dates. The default is
        'calendar'.+++</td>+++
       +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++quarter_number ( 04/14/2014) = 2 +++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<br>++++++</br>+++
       In the following example, May 1st is the start of the fiscal year.+++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++quarter_number ( 04/14/2014, 'fiscal' ) = 4+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++quarter_number ( shipped )+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="start_of_month">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++start_of_month+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns +++<code>+++MMM yyyy+++</code>+++ for the first day of the month. Your installation configuration can override this setting so that it returns a different format such as +++<code>+++MM/dd/yyyy+++</code>+++. Speak with your ThoughtSpot administrator for information on doing this.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++start_of_month ( 01/31/2015 ) = Jan FY 2015+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++start_of_month (shipped)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="start_of_quarter">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++start_of_quarter+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the date for the first day of the quarter for the given date. You can add an
      optional second parameter to specify whether a 'fiscal' or 'calendar' year is
      used to calculate the result. The default is 'calendar'.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++start_of_quarter ( 04/30/2014) = Apr 2014+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<br>++++++</br>+++
      In the following example, May 1st is the start of the fiscal year.+++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++start_of_quarter ( 04/30/2014, 'fiscal') = Feb 2014+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++start_of_quarter (sold)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="start_of_week">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++start_of_week+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the date for the first day of the week for the given date.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++start_of_week ( 01/31/2020 ) = 01/27/2020+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++start_of_week (emailed)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="start_of_year">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++start_of_year+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the date for the first day of the year for the given date. You can add an
      optional second parameter to specify whether a 'fiscal' or 'calendar' year is
      used to calculate the result. The default is 'calendar'.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++start_of_year (04/30/2014) returns Jan 2014+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<br>++++++</br>+++
      In the following example, May 1st is the start of the fiscal year.+++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++start_of_year (04/30/2014, 'fiscal') returns May 2013+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++start_of_year (joined)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="time">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++time+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the time portion of a given date.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++time (1/31/2002 10:32) = 10:32+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++time (call began)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="today">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++today+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the current date.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++today ()+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="week_number_of_month">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++week_number_of_month+++</code>++++++</td>+++
       +++<td>+++Returns the week number for the given date in a month.+++</td>+++
       +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++week_number_of_month(03/23/2017) = 3+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="week_number_of_quarter">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++week_number_of_quarter+++</code>++++++</td>+++
       +++<td>+++Returns the week number for the given date in a quarter. You can add an optional second
        parameter to specify whether a 'fiscal' or 'calendar' year is used to calculate
        the result. The default is 'calendar'.+++</td>+++
       +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++week_number_of_quarter (01/31/2020) = 5+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<br>++++++</br>+++
       In the following example, May 1st is the start of the fiscal year.+++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++week_number_of_quarter (05/31/2020, 'fiscal') = 5+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="week_number_of_year">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++week_number_of_year+++</code>++++++</td>+++
       +++<td>+++Returns the week number for the given date in a year. You can add an optional second
        parameter to specify whether a 'fiscal' or 'calendar' year is used to calculate
        the result. The default is 'calendar'.+++</td>+++
       +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++week_number_of_year (01/17/2014) = 3+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<br>++++++</br>+++
       In the following example, May 1st is the start of the fiscal year.+++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<br>++++++</br>+++
       +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++week_number_of_year ( 01/17/2014, 'fiscal') = 38+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
    +++<tr id="year">++++++<td>++++++<code>+++year+++</code>++++++</td>+++
      +++<td>+++Returns the year from a given date. You can add an optional second parameter to specify
      whether a 'fiscal' or 'calendar' year is used to calculate the result. The default
      is 'calendar'.+++</td>+++
      +++<td>++++++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++year (01/15/2014) = 2014+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<br>++++++</br>+++
      In the following example, May 1st is the start of the fiscal year. Per standard
      convention, the fiscal year is defined by the year-end date.+++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++year (12/15/2013, 'fiscal' ) = 2014+++</code>++++++<br>++++++</br>+++
      +++<code class="highlighter-rouge">+++year (date ordered)+++</code>++++++</td>++++++</tr>++++++</tbody>++++++</table>+++
