software/modules/ROOT/pages/admin-portal-search-spotiq-settings.adoc, before:

= Managing search and SpotIQ settings
:last_updated: 8/20/2021
:linkattrs:
:page-partial:
:experimental:

You can manage certain advanced settings for your organization from the Admin Console. This includes enabling, disabling, and configuring the following features: SpotIQ, column indexing, and summaries and headlines.

Navigate to the Admin Console by clicking on the *Admin* tab from the top navigation bar. Select *Search & SpotIQ* from the side navigation bar that appears.

image::admin-portal-search-spotiq.png[Search and SpotIQ settings]

You can update the <<search,search settings>> and <<spotiq,SpotIQ settings>> from this page.

NOTE: Changing these settings results in a service interruption for all users for approximately 2 minutes. To minimize disruption, consider making your changes during a scheduled maintenance window.

[#search]
== Search settings

Under *Search settings*, you can configure ThoughtSpot’s indexing behavior, and enable or disable summaries and headlines.

To learn more about ThoughtSpot's default indexing behavior, refer to xref:data-modeling-index.adoc[].

To manage search settings, follow these steps:

. Select the *Edit* button in the *Search Settings* section.

. *Index columns*: Click on the toggle to enable or disable ThoughtSpot’s indexing of columns in new connections. If you disable this feature, all columns from new connections are set to `DONT_INDEX`. Note that this change only applies to columns from _new_ connections. You must manually set columns that already exist to `INDEX` or `DONT_INDEX`.

. *Index frequency*: Select a frequency for column indexing from the dropdown. The options are 8, 16, or 24 hours.

. *Summaries and headlines*: Click on the toggle to enable or disable the display of summaries and headlines.

. Select *Save changes*. Alternatively, you can *Reset to default*. By default, ThoughtSpot indexes new columns at a frequency of 24 hours, and enables summaries and headlines.

[#spotiq]
== SpotIQ settings

Under *SpotIQ settings*, you can enable or disable xref:spotiq-custom.adoc[SpotIQ analyze].

To enable or disable SpotIQ Analyze, follow these steps:

. Select the *Edit* button in the *SpotIQ Settings* section.

. Click on the toggle to enable or disable the feature.

. Select *Save changes*. Alternatively, you can *Reset to default*. By default, SpotIQ Analyze is enabled.

Commit message:

SCAL-81639 continuing work on answer v2
Signed-off-by: Teresa Killmond <teresa.killmond@thoughtspot.com>

software/modules/ROOT/pages/admin-portal-search-spotiq-settings.adoc, after:

= Managing search and SpotIQ settings
:last_updated: 8/20/2021
:linkattrs:
:page-partial:
:experimental:

You can manage certain advanced settings for your organization from the Admin Console. This includes enabling, disabling, and configuring the following features: SpotIQ, column indexing, and summaries and headlines.

Navigate to the Admin Console by clicking on the *Admin* tab from the top navigation bar. Select *Search & SpotIQ* from the side navigation bar that appears.

image::admin-portal-search-spotiq.png[Search and SpotIQ settings]

You can update the <<search,search settings>> and <<spotiq,SpotIQ settings>> from this page.

NOTE: Changing these settings results in a service interruption for all users for approximately 2 minutes. To minimize disruption, consider making your changes during a scheduled maintenance window.

[#search]
== Search settings

Under *Search settings*, you can configure ThoughtSpot’s indexing behavior, and enable or disable summaries and headlines.

To learn more about ThoughtSpot's default indexing behavior, refer to xref:data-modeling-index.adoc[].

To manage search settings, follow these steps:

. Select the *Edit* button in the *Search Settings* section.

. *Index columns*: Click on the toggle to enable or disable ThoughtSpot’s indexing of columns in new connections. If you disable this feature, all columns from new connections are set to `DONT_INDEX`. Note that this change only applies to columns from _new_ connections. You must manually set columns that already exist to `INDEX` or `DONT_INDEX`.

. *Index frequency*: Select a frequency for column indexing from the dropdown. The options are 8, 16, or 24 hours.

. *Summaries and headlines*: Click on the toggle to enable or disable the display of summaries in adhoc search. This setting only affects the display of summaries for users on the xref:answer-experience-new.adoc[new answer experience], not the classic experience.
+
NOTE: This setting does not affect the display of summaries in saved objects, such as saved answers, pinned tables, or headline tiles in pinboards.

. Select *Save changes*. Alternatively, you can *Reset to default*. By default, ThoughtSpot indexes new columns at a frequency of 24 hours, and enables summaries and headlines.

[#spotiq]
== SpotIQ settings

Under *SpotIQ settings*, you can enable or disable xref:spotiq-custom.adoc[SpotIQ analyze].

To enable or disable SpotIQ Analyze, follow these steps:

. Select the *Edit* button in the *SpotIQ Settings* section.

. Click on the toggle to enable or disable the feature.

. Select *Save changes*. Alternatively, you can *Reset to default*. By default, SpotIQ Analyze is enabled.
