software/modules/ROOT/pages/al2-prerequisites.adoc, before:

= Amazon Linux 2 installation prerequisites
:last_updated: 04/22/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

Prepare the system and ThoughtSpot clusters for installation.

These are the general steps for installing ThoughtSpot on Amazon Linux 2:

[cols="5,~",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
| &#10063; | xref:set-up-hosts[1. Set up hosts for the ThoughtSpot cluster]
| &#10063; | xref:aws-ssm[2. (Optional) Set up AWS Systems Manager Agent]
| &#10063; | xref:partition-hosts[3. Partition the hosts]
| &#10063; | xref:enable-hosts[4. Enable the hosts to download Amazon Linux 2 packages]
| &#10063; | xref:enable-ansible[5. Enable an Ansible Control Server]
| &#10063; | xref:disable-selinux[6. Disable SELinux or run it in permissive mode]
| &#10063; | xref:tmp-permission[7. Ensure tmp has permission 777]
| &#10063; | xref:etc-sudoers[8. Remove Defaults requiretty from /etc/sudoers]
|===

[#set-up-hosts]
== Set up hosts for the ThoughtSpot cluster

Set up hosts for the ThoughtSpot cluster on Amazon Web Services.

. Refer to xref:aws-configuration-options.adoc[AWS configuration options] for the exact specification for the hosts in regard to CPU, memory, and disks.
. Refer to xref:aws-launch-instance.adoc[Set up AWS resources for ThoughtSpot] to create and launch your AWS virtual machines.

[#aws-ssm]
== [Optional] Set up AWS Systems Manager Agent

If you plan to use the https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/ssm-agent.html[AWS SSM agent^] as an alternative to SSH, create a new IAM role while creating VMs.
This IAM role must have an SSM policy to grant AWS SSM permission to perform actions on your instances.
Refer to https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/setup-instance-profile.html[Create an IAM instance profile for Systems Manager^].

You must install the SSM agent on each node.
Refer to https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/sysman-manual-agent-install.html[Manually install SSM Agent on EC2 instances for Linux^], if the SSM agent is not already on each node.

[#partition-hosts]
== Partition the hosts

Ensure that all ThoughtSpot hosts meet the following partition and sizing requirements.
All drives must be SSDs.

. At least 20 GB available on the root drive, for yum packages and system logs.
. At least 50 GI available for `/tmp`.
. At least 200 GB for ThoughtSpot installation, either on a secondary drive or as a separate partition on the root drive.
+
NOTE: This drive must be separate from the data drive(s).

[#enable-hosts]
== Enable the hosts to download Amazon Linux 2 packages

=== Repositories

[#yum-repository]
Yum repositories::
  You must enable the following Yum repositories in your cluster: +
  `epel`, `google-cloud-sdk`, and `azure-cli`.

[#python-repository]
Python repository::
  For Python, ensure that the machine is able to reach the `PyPI` repository located at https://pypi.python.org/[].

[#r-repository]
R repository::
  For R, ensure that the machine is able to reach the `CRAN` repository located at https://cran.rstudio.com/[].
  Make sure that you can download Amazon Linux 2 packages to all hosts, either from the xref:official-package-repository[official package repositories], or from a xref:mirror-repository[mirror repository] owned and managed by your organization
  If you cannot access the Amazon Linux 2 repositories, there is no mirror repository in your organization, or you are unable to access Yum, Python, or R repositories, please contact xref:support-contact.adoc[ThoughtSpot Support].

[#official-package-repository]
Official package repositories::
  If the hosts of your ThoughtSpot cluster can access external repositories, either directly or through a proxy, your cluster is online.
  You can then proceed to download xref:yum-repository[Yum], xref:python-repository[Python], and xref:r-repository[R] package repositories.

[#mirror-repository]
Internal mirror repository::
  If the hosts of your ThoughtSpot cluster have access to an internal repository that mirrors the public repositories, copy the xref:yum-repository[Yum], xref:python-repository[Python], and xref:r-repository[R] package repositories to your hosts.

[#enable-ansible]
== Enable an Ansible Control Server

Configure an Ansible Control Server, on a separate host, to run the Ansible playbook that ThoughtSpot supplies.
You must install both `rsync` and Ansible on the Ansible Control Server host.

[#disable-selinux]
== Disable SELinux or run it in permissive mode

ThoughtSpot does not support policies that enforce SELinux.
We recommend that you disable SELinux, or run it in permissive mode.

[#tmp-permission]
== Ensure tmp has permission 777

The `/tmp` directory must have `777` permission.

[#etc-sudoers]
== Remove Defaults requiretty from /etc/sudoers

The `/etc/sudoers` file must not have the `Defaults requiretty` line. This line can cause cluster creation to fail.

== Next steps

Next, xref:al2-ts-artifacts.adoc[get ThoughtSpot artifacts].

Commit message:

SCAL-97849 al2 prereqs article
Signed-off-by: Teresa Killmond <teresa.killmond@thoughtspot.com>

software/modules/ROOT/pages/al2-prerequisites.adoc, after:

= Amazon Linux 2 installation prerequisites
:last_updated: 04/22/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

Prepare the system and ThoughtSpot clusters for installation.

These are the general steps for installing ThoughtSpot on Amazon Linux 2:

[cols="5,~",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
| &#10063; | xref:set-up-hosts[1. Set up hosts for the ThoughtSpot cluster]
| &#10063; | xref:aws-ssm[2. (Optional) Set up AWS Systems Manager Agent]
| &#10063; | xref:partition-hosts[3. Partition the hosts]
| &#10063; | xref:enable-hosts[4. Enable the hosts to download Amazon Linux 2 packages]
| &#10063; | xref:disable-selinux[5. Disable SELinux or run it in permissive mode]
| &#10063; | xref:tmp-permission[6. Ensure tmp has permission 777]
| &#10063; | xref:etc-sudoers[7. Remove Defaults requiretty from /etc/sudoers]
| &#10063; | xref:enable-ansible[ (Optional) Enable an Ansible Control Server]
|===

[#set-up-hosts]
== Set up hosts for the ThoughtSpot cluster

Set up hosts for the ThoughtSpot cluster on Amazon Web Services.

. Refer to xref:aws-configuration-options.adoc[AWS configuration options] for the exact specification for the hosts in regard to CPU, memory, and disks.
. Refer to xref:aws-launch-instance.adoc[Set up AWS resources for ThoughtSpot] to create and launch your AWS virtual machines.

[#aws-ssm]
== [Optional] Set up AWS Systems Manager Agent

If you plan to use the https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/ssm-agent.html[AWS SSM agent^] as an alternative to SSH, create a new IAM role while creating VMs.
This IAM role must have an SSM policy to grant AWS SSM permission to perform actions on your instances.
Refer to https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/setup-instance-profile.html[Create an IAM instance profile for Systems Manager^].

You must install the SSM agent on each node.
Refer to https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/sysman-manual-agent-install.html[Manually install SSM Agent on EC2 instances for Linux^], if the SSM agent is not already on each node.

[#partition-hosts]
== Partition the hosts

Ensure that all ThoughtSpot hosts meet the following partition and sizing requirements.
All drives must be SSDs.

Do not partition the data drives. ThoughtSpot partitions the data drives during installation. For information about data drive specifications, refer to the intro articles for each platform linked in the <<set-up-hosts,set up hosts>> section of this article.


[cols="15,85",options="header"]
|===
| Path | Required free space

| /
| 20 GB. This is the root drive.

| /tmp
| 50 GB

| /export
| 200 GB, on a separate filesystem. This must also be separate from the data drives.
|===

[#enable-hosts]
== Enable the hosts to download Amazon Linux 2 packages

=== Repositories

[#yum-repository]
Yum repositories::
  You must enable the following Yum repositories in your cluster: +
  `epel`, `google-cloud-sdk`, and `azure-cli`.

[#python-repository]
Python repository::
  For Python, ensure that the machine is able to reach the `PyPI` repository located at https://pypi.python.org/[].

[#r-repository]
R repository::
  For R, ensure that the machine is able to reach the `CRAN` repository located at https://cran.rstudio.com/[].
  Make sure that you can download Amazon Linux 2 packages to all hosts, either from the xref:official-package-repository[official package repositories], or from a xref:mirror-repository[mirror repository] owned and managed by your organization
  If you cannot access the Amazon Linux 2 repositories, there is no mirror repository in your organization, or you are unable to access Yum, Python, or R repositories, please contact xref:support-contact.adoc[ThoughtSpot Support].

[#official-package-repository]
Official package repositories::
  If the hosts of your ThoughtSpot cluster can access external repositories, either directly or through a proxy, your cluster is online.
  You can then proceed to download xref:yum-repository[Yum], xref:python-repository[Python], and xref:r-repository[R] package repositories.

[#mirror-repository]
Internal mirror repository::
  If the hosts of your ThoughtSpot cluster have access to an internal repository that mirrors the public repositories, copy the xref:yum-repository[Yum], xref:python-repository[Python], and xref:r-repository[R] package repositories to your hosts.

[#disable-selinux]
== Disable SELinux or run it in permissive mode

ThoughtSpot does not support policies that enforce SELinux.
We recommend that you disable SELinux, or run it in permissive mode.

[#tmp-permission]
== Ensure tmp has permission 777

The `/tmp` directory must have `777` permission.

[#etc-sudoers]
== Remove Defaults requiretty from /etc/sudoers

The `/etc/sudoers` file must not have the `Defaults requiretty` line. This line can cause cluster creation to fail.

[#enable-ansible]
== [Optional] Enable an Ansible Control Server

Optionally configure an Ansible Control Server, on a separate host, to run the Ansible playbook that ThoughtSpot supplies.
You must install both `rsync` and Ansible on the Ansible Control Server host.

== Next steps

Next, xref:al2-ts-artifacts.adoc[get ThoughtSpot artifacts].
