software/modules/ROOT/pages/connections-starburst-add.adoc, before:

= Add a Starburst connection
:last_updated: 08/27/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:
:page-partial:

Follow these steps to connect to Starburst databases:

include::partial$connections-nav1.adoc[]

. In the *Choose your data warehouse* interface, specify the fields:
+
xref:connections-starburst-reference.adoc#connection-name[Name your connection]:: For example, _MyStarburstDatabase_
xref:connections-starburst-reference.adoc#connection-description[Describe your connections]:: The optional description of the database
Choose your data warehouse:: Select the Starburst tile
+
image::connection-starburst-add.png[Add Starburst connection]

. Click *Connect*.

. In the *Specify connection details* interface, enter the connection details for your Starburst data source.
+
image::connection-starburst-specify-details.png[]
+
xref:connections-starburst-reference.adoc#host[Host]:: Host name or IP address
xref:connections-starburst-reference.adoc#port[Port]:: Port associated with the database
xref:connections-starburst-reference.adoc#user-id[User]:: The user account name
xref:connections-starburst-reference.adoc#password[Password]:: The password of the user account
xref:connections-starburst-reference.adoc#database[Database]:: The password of the user account
include::partial$connection-add-key-value-pairs.adoc[]

include::partial$connection-add-tables-columns.adoc[]

include::partial$connection-add-can-do.adoc[]

image::connection-starburst-done.png[New connection]

include::partial$connection-add-perform-query.adoc[]

'''
> **Related information**
>
> * xref:connections-starburst-edit.adoc[]
> * xref:connections-starburst-remap.adoc[]
> * xref:connections-starburst-delete-table.adoc[]
> * xref:connections-starburst-delete-table-dependencies.adoc[]
> * xref:connections-starburst-reference.adoc[]
> * xref:connections-starburst-delete.adoc[]

Commit message:

proxy info for snowflake and starburst
Signed-off-by: Mark Plummer <mark.plummer@thoughtspot.com>

software/modules/ROOT/pages/connections-starburst-add.adoc, after:

= Add a Starburst connection
:last_updated: 08/27/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:
:page-partial:

Follow these steps to connect to Starburst databases:

include::partial$connections-nav1.adoc[]

. In the *Choose your data warehouse* interface, specify the fields:
+
xref:connections-starburst-reference.adoc#connection-name[Name your connection]:: For example, _MyStarburstDatabase_
xref:connections-starburst-reference.adoc#connection-description[Describe your connections]:: The optional description of the database
Choose your data warehouse:: Select the Starburst tile
+
image::connection-starburst-add.png[Add Starburst connection]

. Click *Connect*.

. In the *Specify connection details* interface, enter the connection details for your Starburst data source.
+
image::connection-starburst-specify-details.png[]
+
xref:connections-starburst-reference.adoc#host[Host]:: Host name or IP address
xref:connections-starburst-reference.adoc#port[Port]:: Port associated with the database
xref:connections-starburst-reference.adoc#user-id[User]:: The user account name
xref:connections-starburst-reference.adoc#password[Password]:: The password of the user account
xref:connections-starburst-reference.adoc#database[Database]:: The password of the user account

. (Optional) Configure proxy for your Starburst connection by doing the following:
.. Click the *Advanced Config* menu to reveal the Key and Value fields.
.. For Key, enter *httpProxy*, and for Value, enter *<proxyHost>:<proxyPort>*.
+
Example: *40.142.32.22:5050*

include::partial$connection-add-key-value-pairs.adoc[]

include::partial$connection-add-tables-columns.adoc[]

include::partial$connection-add-can-do.adoc[]

image::connection-starburst-done.png[New connection]

include::partial$connection-add-perform-query.adoc[]

'''
> **Related information**
>
> * xref:connections-starburst-edit.adoc[]
> * xref:connections-starburst-remap.adoc[]
> * xref:connections-starburst-delete-table.adoc[]
> * xref:connections-starburst-delete-table-dependencies.adoc[]
> * xref:connections-starburst-reference.adoc[]
> * xref:connections-starburst-delete.adoc[]
