software/modules/ROOT/pages/dataflow-presto-reference.adoc, before:

= Presto connection reference
:last_updated: 07/7/2020
:experimental:
:linkattrs:
:page-aliases: /data-integrate/dataflow/dataflow-presto-reference.adoc

Learn about the fields used to create a Presto connection with ThoughtSpot DataFlow.

Here is a list of the fields for a Presto connection in ThoughtSpot DataFlow.
You need specific information to establish a seamless and secure connection.

[#connection-properties]
== Connection properties
[#dataflow-presto-conn-connection-name]
Connection name:: Name your connection. Mandatory field.
Example:;; PrestoSQLConnection
[#dataflow-presto-conn-connection-type]
Connection type:: Choose the Presto connection type. Mandatory field.
Example:;; Presto
[#dataflow-presto-conn-host]
Host:: Specify the hostname or the IP address of the Presto system. Mandatory field.
Example:;; www.example.com
[#dataflow-presto-conn-port]
Port:: Specify the port associated to the Presto system. Mandatory field.
Example:;; 1234
[#dataflow-presto-conn-user-name]
User name::
Specify the user id that will be used to connect to the Presto system.
This user should have necessary privileges to access the data in the databases. Mandatory field.
Example:;; userdi
[#dataflow-presto-conn-authentication-type]
Authentication type::
Specifies the type of security protocol to connect to the instance.
Based on the type of security select the authentication type and provide details. Mandatory field.
Example:;; SSL
Valid Values:;; No Auth, SSL, LDAP, KERBEROS
Default:;; No Auth
[#dataflow-presto-conn-ssl-key-store-path]
SSL key store path:: Specify trust store path which is generated by server. Optional field.
Example:;; trust store
[#dataflow-presto-conn-ssl-key-store-password]
SSL key store password:: Specify password for key store which is generated by client which is created while generating key store file. Optional field.
Example:;; password
[#dataflow-presto-conn-ldap-password]
Ldap password:: Provide LDAP password to connect. Optional field.
Example:;; password
[#dataflow-presto-conn-kerberos-remote-service-name]
Kerberos remote service name:: Hostname of the kerberos server, this is required to generate the krb.conf file. Optional field.
Example:;; my_email@example.com
[#dataflow-presto-conn-user-principal]
User principal:: To authenticate via a key-tab you must have supporting key-tab file which is generated by Kerberos Admin and also requires the user principal associated with Key-tab (Configured while enabling Kerberos). Optional field.
Example:;; labuser@labdp.example.com
[#dataflow-presto-conn-kerberos-config]
Kerberos config:: A Kerberos config explains the configuration details used to connect to Kerberos authentication server. Optional field.
Example:;; name.example.com
[#dataflow-presto-conn-user-keytab]
User keytab:: To authenticate via a key-tab you must have supporting key-tab file which is generated by Kerberos Admin and also requires the user principal associated with Key-tab (Configured while enabling Kerberos). Optional field.
Example:;; /app/keytabs/labuser.keytab
[#dataflow-presto-conn-catalog-name]
Catalog name:: Specify the catalog file name. Mandatory field.
Example:;; direp
Other notes:;; Advanced configuration.
[#dataflow-presto-conn-schema-name]
Schema name:: Specify the schema name of a database. Mandatory field.
Example:;; dbrep
Other notes:;; Advanced configuration.
[#dataflow-presto-conn-jdbc-options]
include::partial$dataflow/jdbc-options.adoc[]

[#sync-properties]
== Sync properties
[#dataflow-presto-sync-column-delimiter]
Column delimiter:: Specify the column delimiter character. Mandatory field.
Example:;; 1
Valid Values:;; Any printable ASCII character or decimal value for ASCII character
[#dataflow-presto-sync-null-value]
Null value::
Specifies the string literal that should indicate the null value in the extracted data.
During the data load the column value matching this string will be loaded as null in the target. Optional field.
Example:;; NULL
Valid Values:;; Any string literal
[#dataflow-presto-sync-enclosing-character]
Enclosing character:: Specify if the text columns in the source data needs to be enclosed in quotes. Optional field.
Example:;; DOUBLE
Valid Values:;; SINGLE, DOUBLE
Other notes:;; This is required if the text data has newline character or delimiter character.
[#dataflow-presto-sync-escape-character]
Escape character:: Specify the escape character if using a text qualifier in the source data. Optional field.
Example:;; \"
Valid Values:;; Any ASCII character
[#dataflow-presto-sync-ts-load-options]
include::partial$dataflow/ts-load-options.adoc[]

Commit message:

presto sync
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/ROOT/pages/dataflow-presto-reference.adoc, after:

= Presto connection reference
:last_updated: 07/7/2020
:experimental:
:linkattrs:
:page-aliases: /data-integrate/dataflow/dataflow-presto-reference.adoc

Learn about the fields used to create a Presto connection with ThoughtSpot DataFlow.

Here is a list of the fields for a Presto connection in ThoughtSpot DataFlow.
You need specific information to establish a seamless and secure connection.

[#connection-properties]
== Connection properties
[#dataflow-presto-conn-connection-name]
Connection name:: Name your connection. Mandatory field.
Example:;; PrestoSQLConnection
[#dataflow-presto-conn-connection-type]
Connection type:: Choose the Presto connection type. Mandatory field.
Example:;; Presto
[#dataflow-presto-conn-host]
Host:: Specify the hostname or the IP address of the Presto system. Mandatory field.
Example:;; www.example.com
[#dataflow-presto-conn-port]
Port:: Specify the port associated to the Presto system. Mandatory field.
Example:;; 1234
[#dataflow-presto-conn-user-name]
User name::
Specify the user id that will be used to connect to the Presto system.
This user should have necessary privileges to access the data in the databases. Mandatory field.
Example:;; userdi
[#dataflow-presto-conn-authentication-type]
Authentication type::
Specifies the type of security protocol to connect to the instance.
Based on the type of security select the authentication type and provide details. Mandatory field.
Example:;; SSL
Valid Values:;; No Auth, SSL, LDAP, KERBEROS
Default:;; No Auth
[#dataflow-presto-conn-ssl-key-store-path]
SSL key store path:: Specify trust store path which is generated by server. Mandatory field.
Example:;; trust store
[#dataflow-presto-conn-ssl-key-store-password]
SSL key store password:: Specify password for key store which is generated by client which is created while generating key store file. Mandatory field.
Example:;; password
[#dataflow-presto-conn-ldap-password]
Ldap password:: Provide LDAP password to connect. Mandatory field.
Example:;; password
[#dataflow-presto-conn-kerberos-remote-service-name]
Kerberos remote service name:: Hostname of the kerberos server, this is required to generate the krb.conf file. Mandatory field.
Example:;; my_email@example.com
[#dataflow-presto-conn-user-principal]
User principal:: To authenticate via a key-tab you must have supporting key-tab file which is generated by Kerberos Admin and also requires the user principal associated with Key-tab (Configured while enabling Kerberos). Mandatory field.
Example:;; labuser@labdp.example.com
[#dataflow-presto-conn-kerberos-config]
Kerberos config:: A Kerberos config explains the configuration details used to connect to Kerberos authentication server. Mandatory field.
Example:;; name.example.com
[#dataflow-presto-conn-user-keytab]
User keytab:: To authenticate via a key-tab you must have supporting key-tab file which is generated by Kerberos Admin and also requires the user principal associated with Key-tab (Configured while enabling Kerberos). Mandatory field.
Example:;; /app/keytabs/labuser.keytab
[#dataflow-presto-conn-catalog-name]
Catalog name:: Specify the catalog file name. Mandatory field.
Example:;; direp
Other notes:;; Advanced configuration.
[#dataflow-presto-conn-schema-name]
Schema name:: Specify the schema name of a database. Mandatory field.
Example:;; dbrep
Other notes:;; Advanced configuration.
[#dataflow-presto-conn-jdbc-options]
include::partial$dataflow/jdbc-options.adoc[]

[#sync-properties]
== Sync properties
[#dataflow-presto-sync-column-delimiter]
Column delimiter:: Specify the column delimiter character. Mandatory field.
Example:;; 1
Valid Values:;; Any printable ASCII character or decimal value for ASCII character
////
[#dataflow-presto-sync-null-value]
Null value::
Specifies the string literal that should indicate the null value in the extracted data.
During the data load the column value matching this string will be loaded as null in the target. Optional field.
Example:;; NULL
Valid Values:;; Any string literal
////
[#dataflow-presto-sync-enclosing-character]
Enclosing character:: Specify if the text columns in the source data needs to be enclosed in quotes. Optional field.
Example:;; DOUBLE
Valid Values:;; SINGLE, DOUBLE
Other notes:;; This is required if the text data has newline character or delimiter character.
[#dataflow-presto-sync-escape-character]
Escape character:: Specify the escape character if using a text qualifier in the source data. Optional field.
Example:;; \"
Valid Values:;; Any ASCII character
[#dataflow-presto-sync-max-ignored-rows]
Max ignored rows:: Abort the transaction after encountering 'n' ignored rows. Optional field.
Example:;; 0
Valid Values:;; Any numeric value
Default:;; 0
[#dataflow-presto-sync-ts-load-options]
include::partial$dataflow/ts-load-options.adoc[]
