software/modules/ROOT/pages/falcon-monitor.adoc, before:

= Falcon monitor pinboards
:last_updated: 8/20/2020
:experimental:
:linkattrs:

Use the Falcon Monitor Pinboards for an overview of Falcon, ThoughtSpot's in-memory database, and its health, based on query, data load, system stats, and varz metrics.

In ThoughtSpot release 6.2, there are 5 new Pinboards, based on Falcon metrics, that are available to system administrators.

Falcon is ThoughtSpot's in-memory database.
Falcon monitoring functionality pushes different kinds of metrics to Falcon system tables every fifteen minutes.
These system tables, when updated, update the 5 new Pinboards that you can use to monitor Falcon's health.
You can see these Pinboards from the *Pinboards* page, by searching for *360_Overview*:

image::falcon-360-pinboard.png[Falcon Pinboards on the Pinboards page]

The 5 new database monitoring Pinboards are: <<falcon_360_overview,Falcon_360_Overview>>, <<falcon_query_360_overview,Falcon_Query_360_Overview>>, <<falcon_dataload_360_overview,Falcon_Dataload_360_Overview>>,  <<falcon_varz_360_overview,Falcon_Varz_360_Overview>>, and <<system_stats_360_overview,System_Stats_360_Overview>>.

You can use these Pinboards for proactive monitoring, or, with help from https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support^], for debugging.

[#falcon_360_overview]
== Falcon_360_Overview

This Pinboard provides basic information regarding Falcon's performance and health.
Visualizations include *Interactive query latency(sec) percentiles last 24 hours*, *Dataload : Avg Ingestion Speed (# Rows Ingested / Load Time) Per Hour - Last 72 Hours*, *CPU Utilization (System, Idle, User) - Last 72 Hours*, *Dataload Frequency By Hour Of Day (Aggregated over 7 days)*, *Top 10 frequently changed pinboard vizes*, and so on.

image::falcon-360-overview-pinboard.png[Falcon_360_Overview Pinboard]

[#falcon_query_360_overview]
== Falcon_Query_360_Overview

This Pinboard provides information about Falcon query execution based on traces.
Visualizations include *Interactive query latency(sec) percentiles last 24 hours*, *Average duration(sec) by request source last 72 hours*, *Median latency(sec) by hour of the day last 7 days*, *Count of trace ids by error status last 72 hours*, *Max JIT compilation time(sec) last 72 hours*, *Top 10 vizs based on avg duration(sec)*, and so on.

image::falcon-query-360-pinboard.png[Falcon_Query_360_Overview Pinboard]

[#falcon_dataload_360_overview]
== Falcon_Dataload_360_Overview

This Pinboard provides information about Falcon data loads based on traces.
Visualizations include *Failed Dataloads*, *Tables With Most Frequent Inserts/Upserts*, *Table Growth (# Rows) Over Time*, *Load Frequency By Hour Of Day (Aggregated in a time window)*, *Slowest Loads & Corresponding Region Load Time Skew*, *Loads With Highest Compaction Overhead (# Rows)* and so on.

image::falcon-dataload-360-pinboard.png[Falcon_Dataload_360_Overview Pinboard]

[#falcon_varz_360_overview]
== Falcon_Varz_360_Overview

This Pinboard provides information about Falcon services based on metrics in VarZ format.
Visualizations include *Falcon Worker Execution Metrics*, *Falcon Query Runtime (Average and Max)*, *Falcon Worker Memory Manager*, *Daily Data Load Statistics*, *Falcon Compiler Cache Daily Usage*, and so on.

image::falcon-varz-360-pinboard.png[Falcon_Varz_360_Overview Pinboard]

[#system_stats_360_overview]
== System_Stats_360_Overview

This Pinboard provides system stats information such as memory usage, CPU usage, and load average.
Visualizations include *Memory Utilization*, *CPU Utilization (System, Idle, User)*, *Loadavg (current/total scheduling entities)*, *Memory (Free)*, *Netstat connections*, and so on.

image::system-stats-360-pinboard.png[System_Stats_360_Overview Pinboard]

Commit message:

contact support xref
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/ROOT/pages/falcon-monitor.adoc, after:

= Falcon monitor pinboards
:last_updated: 8/20/2020
:experimental:
:linkattrs:

Use the Falcon Monitor Pinboards for an overview of Falcon, ThoughtSpot's in-memory database, and its health, based on query, data load, system stats, and varz metrics.

In ThoughtSpot release 6.2, there are 5 new Pinboards, based on Falcon metrics, that are available to system administrators.

Falcon is ThoughtSpot's in-memory database.
Falcon monitoring functionality pushes different kinds of metrics to Falcon system tables every fifteen minutes.
These system tables, when updated, update the 5 new Pinboards that you can use to monitor Falcon's health.
You can see these Pinboards from the *Pinboards* page, by searching for *360_Overview*:

image::falcon-360-pinboard.png[Falcon Pinboards on the Pinboards page]

The 5 new database monitoring Pinboards are: <<falcon_360_overview,Falcon_360_Overview>>, <<falcon_query_360_overview,Falcon_Query_360_Overview>>, <<falcon_dataload_360_overview,Falcon_Dataload_360_Overview>>,  <<falcon_varz_360_overview,Falcon_Varz_360_Overview>>, and <<system_stats_360_overview,System_Stats_360_Overview>>.

You can use these Pinboards for proactive monitoring, or, with help from xref:support-contact.adoc[ThoughtSpot Support], for debugging.

[#falcon_360_overview]
== Falcon_360_Overview

This Pinboard provides basic information regarding Falcon's performance and health.
Visualizations include *Interactive query latency(sec) percentiles last 24 hours*, *Dataload : Avg Ingestion Speed (# Rows Ingested / Load Time) Per Hour - Last 72 Hours*, *CPU Utilization (System, Idle, User) - Last 72 Hours*, *Dataload Frequency By Hour Of Day (Aggregated over 7 days)*, *Top 10 frequently changed pinboard vizes*, and so on.

image::falcon-360-overview-pinboard.png[Falcon_360_Overview Pinboard]

[#falcon_query_360_overview]
== Falcon_Query_360_Overview

This Pinboard provides information about Falcon query execution based on traces.
Visualizations include *Interactive query latency(sec) percentiles last 24 hours*, *Average duration(sec) by request source last 72 hours*, *Median latency(sec) by hour of the day last 7 days*, *Count of trace ids by error status last 72 hours*, *Max JIT compilation time(sec) last 72 hours*, *Top 10 vizs based on avg duration(sec)*, and so on.

image::falcon-query-360-pinboard.png[Falcon_Query_360_Overview Pinboard]

[#falcon_dataload_360_overview]
== Falcon_Dataload_360_Overview

This Pinboard provides information about Falcon data loads based on traces.
Visualizations include *Failed Dataloads*, *Tables With Most Frequent Inserts/Upserts*, *Table Growth (# Rows) Over Time*, *Load Frequency By Hour Of Day (Aggregated in a time window)*, *Slowest Loads & Corresponding Region Load Time Skew*, *Loads With Highest Compaction Overhead (# Rows)* and so on.

image::falcon-dataload-360-pinboard.png[Falcon_Dataload_360_Overview Pinboard]

[#falcon_varz_360_overview]
== Falcon_Varz_360_Overview

This Pinboard provides information about Falcon services based on metrics in VarZ format.
Visualizations include *Falcon Worker Execution Metrics*, *Falcon Query Runtime (Average and Max)*, *Falcon Worker Memory Manager*, *Daily Data Load Statistics*, *Falcon Compiler Cache Daily Usage*, and so on.

image::falcon-varz-360-pinboard.png[Falcon_Varz_360_Overview Pinboard]

[#system_stats_360_overview]
== System_Stats_360_Overview

This Pinboard provides system stats information such as memory usage, CPU usage, and load average.
Visualizations include *Memory Utilization*, *CPU Utilization (System, Idle, User)*, *Loadavg (current/total scheduling entities)*, *Memory (Free)*, *Netstat connections*, and so on.

image::system-stats-360-pinboard.png[System_Stats_360_Overview Pinboard]
