software/modules/ROOT/pages/formula-answer-edit.adoc, before:

= View or edit a formula in a search
:last_updated: 12/4/2020
:experimental:
:linkattrs:
:page-partial:
:page-aliases: /complex-search/edit-formula-in-answer.adoc

Learn how to view or edit a formula.

You can always go back and view or edit a formula that was added to a search.
Do this by clicking the edit icon next to its name in the *Columns* listing.
Anyone who has edit privileges on an answer can also edit any formulas it contains.
To view or edit an existing formula in an answer:

. Navigate to the pinboard that contains the answer with the formula, click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Edit*.
. Scroll down to the bottom of the *Columns* listing.
You will see a data source called *Formulas*.
. Expand *Formulas*, and you can see a list of all the formulas in this answer.
+
image::edit_formula_in_answer.png[]

. Click the edit icon image:icon-edit-20px.png[edit icon] next to the formula name.
. View or edit your formula in the Formula Builder.
+
image::formula_builder_2.png[]
+
NOTE: Formulas elements are color coded by type and can include the formula operators and functions (blue), the names of columns (purple), and/or constants (black).

. If you edited your formula, click *Save* to save your changes.
Otherwise, click *Cancel*.

Commit message:

SCAL-81639 continuing work on answer v2
Signed-off-by: Teresa Killmond <teresa.killmond@thoughtspot.com>

software/modules/ROOT/pages/formula-answer-edit.adoc, after:

= View or edit a formula in a search
:last_updated: 12/4/2020
:experimental:
:linkattrs:
:page-partial:
:page-aliases: /complex-search/edit-formula-in-answer.adoc

NOTE: The formula editor redesign is part of the new answer experience. The new answer experience is in Beta and off by default, but the option to turn it on or off individually is on by default. If you have the new answer experience on, your user interface and experience may be different from the experience described in this article. You can turn the new answer experience on or off individually from the *Experience manager* panel in xref:user-profile.adoc#new-answer-experience[your profile]. If that option is not available, contact your administrator.

Learn how to view or edit a formula.

You can always go back and view or edit a formula that was added to a search.
Do this by clicking the edit icon next to its name in the *Columns* listing.
Anyone who has edit privileges on an answer can also edit any formulas it contains.
To view or edit an existing formula in an answer:

. Navigate to the pinboard that contains the answer with the formula, click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Edit*.
. Scroll down to the bottom of the *Columns* listing.
You will see a data source called *Formulas*.
. Expand *Formulas*, and you can see a list of all the formulas in this answer.
+
image::edit_formula_in_answer.png[]

. Click the edit icon image:icon-edit-20px.png[edit icon] next to the formula name.
. View or edit your formula in the Formula Builder.
+
image::formula_builder_2.png[]
+
NOTE: Formulas elements are color coded by type and can include the formula operators and functions (blue), the names of columns (purple), and/or constants (black).

. If you edited your formula, click *Save* to save your changes.
Otherwise, click *Cancel*.
