software/modules/ROOT/pages/group-aggregation-inner.adoc, before:

= Omitting outer aggregation from your formula
:last-updated: 10/22/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

All of the examples have so far included both an “inner aggregation” and an “outer aggregation”. This article discusses the effect of omitting the outer aggregation. To test for yourself, use the data set provided in <<prerequisites,the prerequisite>>.

[#prerequisites]
include::partial$group-aggregate-prerequisite.adoc[]

[#example-5]
== Removing outer aggregation

In this example, we will begin with the following formula:
[source]
----
average(
  group_aggregate(
    sum(hours),
    query_groups() + {activity classification},
    {}
    )
  )
----

This formula specifies that we should aggregate hours by summing to the level of detail specified by the dimensions in the search bar + _activity classification_. Then we should re-aggregate to the search bar level of detail by averaging.

Using our meetings dataset as an example, this would mean that for each account we do the following:
- Calculate two values: 1) sum of hours for all meetings and 2) sum of hours for all calls.
- Average those two values to calculate the final value for the account.

The resulting table will contain one row per account, containing the averaged value.

To test this with our sample dataset, follow these steps:

1. Begin your search, using _Meetings_tiny.csv_ as your data source.
2. Enter `hours``activity classification` in the search bar and click *Go*.
3. Click the **more options** icon image:icon-more-10px.png[] and select *Create formula*.
4. In the formula pop-up window, name your formula. Here, we have named the formula *average hours per activity classification*.
5. Enter the following formula and click *Save*: +
[source]
----
average(
  group_aggregate(
    sum(hours),
    query_groups() + {activity classification},
    {}
    )
  )
----
+

6. Search for: `account`   `average hours per activity classification`    `sort by account`
+
[#example-5-1-1]
.Example 5.1.1
[options=”header”]
|===
| Account | Hours per activity classification averaged

| Amazon | 11

| Oracle | 18

| Redshift | 3

| Snowflake | 3.5
|===
+

In any formula, you have the option of omitting the outer aggregation (“average” in this case), but this is not recommended and may lead to confusing results. When you omit the outer aggregation, the result shows the table or chart at the level of detail of the inner aggregation. In this example, the inner aggregation is at the _activity classification_ level of detail.
+
If we omit the outer aggregation, the table would be displayed as follows:
+
7. Search for: `account`   `average hours per activity classification`    `sort by account`
+
[#example-5-1-2]
.Example 5.1.2
[options=”header”]
|===
| Account | Hours per activity classification averaged

| Amazon | 11

| Oracle | 18

| Redshift | 5

| Redshift | 1

| Snowflake | 2

| Snowflake | 5
|===
+

In the table above, because the outer aggregation has been omitted from the hours per activity classification averaged formula, we display the table at the _activity classification_ level of detail, but we do not show a column for _activity classification_.

8. If you add an _activity classification_ column, this table makes more sense:

9. Search for: `account`   `average hours per activity classification ` `sort by account`
+
[#example-5-1-3]
.Example 5.1.3
[options=”header”]
|===
| Account | Activity classification | Hours per activity classification averaged

| Amazon | meeting | 11

| Oracle | meeting | 18

| Redshift | meeting | 5

| Redshift | call | 1

| Snowflake | meeting | 2

| Snowflake | call | 5
|===
+
In a nutshell, omitting the outer aggregation means the formula will not be aggregated to the level of detail specified in the search bar. This is confusing to the user and not recommended.
+
If you have a preference for placing your outer aggregation in the search bar, this is an option. You can omit the outer aggregation from the formula and place it in the search bar instead. For example, if you omit the outer aggregation in the formula above, the formula would look like this:

*Formula*: +
[source]
----
group_aggregate(
  sum(hours),
  query_groups() + {activity classification},
  {}
  )
----

In this case, you could achieve outer aggregation to the search bar level by putting the following in your search:

Search for: `account`   `average hours per activity classification`    `sort by account`
+
[#example-5-1-4]
.Example 5.1.4
[options=”header”]
|===
| Account | Average hours per activity classification

| Amazon | 11

| Oracle | 18

| Redshift | 3

| Snowflake | 3.5
|===


This results in the same table generated by including the outer aggregation in the formula, but the column heading will be prefixed by “Average”.

This is a valid approach, but requires that the user of the formula remember to add the aggregation to the front of the formula when used in the search bar. When omitted, the results are confusing, so recommended usage is to always include the outer aggregation in the formula.

Commit message:

group-agg clean
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/ROOT/pages/group-aggregation-inner.adoc, after:

= Omitting outer aggregation from your formula
:last-updated: 11/01/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

All of the examples have so far included both an “inner aggregation” and an “outer aggregation”. This article discusses the effect of omitting the outer aggregation. To test for yourself, use the data set provided in <<prerequisites,the prerequisite>>.

[#prerequisites]
include::partial$group-aggregate-prerequisite.adoc[]

[#example-5]
== Removing outer aggregation

In this example, we will begin with the following formula:
[source]
----
average(
  group_aggregate(
    sum(hours),
    query_groups() + {activity classification},
    {}
    )
  )
----

This formula specifies that we should aggregate hours by summing to the level of detail specified by the dimensions in the search bar + _activity classification_. Then we should re-aggregate to the search bar level of detail by averaging.

Using our Meetings dataset as an example, this would mean that for each account we do the following:

- Calculate two values: +
1) sum of hours for all meetings and +
2) sum of hours for all calls.
- Average those two values to calculate the final value for the account.

The resulting table will contain one row per account, containing the averaged value.

To test this with our sample dataset, follow these steps:

1. Begin your search, using _Meetings_tiny.csv_ as your data source.
2. Enter `hours` `activity classification` in the search bar and click *Go*.
3. Click the **more options** icon image:icon-more-10px.png[] and select *Create formula*.
4. In the formula pop-up window, name your formula. Here, we have named the formula *average hours per activity classification*.
5. Enter the following formula and click *Save*:
+
[source]
----
average(
  group_aggregate(
    sum(hours),
    query_groups() + {activity classification},
    {}
    )
  )
----

6. Search for: `account`   `average hours per activity classification`    `sort by account`
+
[#example-5-1-1]
.Example 5.1.1
[options=”header”]
|===
| Account | Hours per activity classification averaged

| Amazon | 11

| Oracle | 18

| Redshift | 3

| Snowflake | 3.5
|===


In any formula, you have the option of omitting the outer aggregation (“average” in this case), but this is not recommended and may lead to confusing results. When you omit the outer aggregation, the result shows the table or chart at the level of detail of the inner aggregation. In this example, the inner aggregation is at the _activity classification_ level of detail.

If we omit the outer aggregation, the table would be displayed as follows:

1. Search for: `account`   `average hours per activity classification`    `sort by account`
+
[#example-5-1-2]
.Example 5.1.2
[options=”header”]
|===
| Account | Hours per activity classification averaged

| Amazon | 11

| Oracle | 18

| Redshift | 5

| Redshift | 1

| Snowflake | 2

| Snowflake | 5
|===
+

In the table above, because the outer aggregation has been omitted from the hours per activity classification averaged formula, we display the table at the _activity classification_ level of detail, but we do not show a column for _activity classification_.

2. If you add an _activity classification_ column, this table makes more sense:

3. Search for: `account` `average hours per activity classification ` `sort by account`
+
[#example-5-1-3]
.Example 5.1.3
[options=”header”]
|===
| Account | Activity classification | Hours per activity classification averaged

| Amazon | meeting | 11

| Oracle | meeting | 18

| Redshift | meeting | 5

| Redshift | call | 1

| Snowflake | meeting | 2

| Snowflake | call | 5
|===
+
In a nutshell, omitting the outer aggregation means the formula will not be aggregated to the level of detail specified in the search bar. This is confusing to the user and not recommended.
+
If you have a preference for placing your outer aggregation in the search bar, this is an option. You can omit the outer aggregation from the formula and place it in the search bar instead. For example, if you omit the outer aggregation in the formula above, the formula would look like this:

*Hours per activity classification averaged*::
+
[source]
----
group_aggregate(
  sum(hours),
  query_groups() + {activity classification},
  {}
  )
----

In this case, you could achieve outer aggregation to the search bar level by putting the following in your search:

1. Search for: `account`   `average hours per activity classification`    `sort by account`
+
[#example-5-1-4]
.Example 5.1.4
[options=”header”]
|===
| Account | Average hours per activity classification

| Amazon | 11

| Oracle | 18

| Redshift | 3

| Snowflake | 3.5
|===

+
This results in the same table generated by including the outer aggregation in the formula, but the column heading will be prefixed by “Average”.
+
This is a valid approach, but requires that the user of the formula remember to add the aggregation to the front of the formula when used in the search bar. When omitted, the results are confusing, so recommended usage is to always include the outer aggregation in the formula.

> Related information:
>
> * xref:group-aggregation-customize.adoc[]
