software/modules/ROOT/pages/pinboard-schedule.adoc, before:

= Schedule a pinboard job
:last_updated: 02/11/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:
:page-partial:
:page-aliases: /admin/manage-jobs/schedule-a-pinboard-job.adoc

You can schedule a pinboard job for any Pinboard by using the *Add a schedule* prompt page.

You can add multiple schedules with different configurations for a single Pinboard. However, each job is limited to one Pinboard schedule. To add a schedule, you must either be an administrator, or have the *Schedule pinboard* privilege, and edit-only and view-only access or better.

To schedule a Pinboard, follow these steps:

. Sign in to ThoughtSpot from a browser.
. Click *Pinboards*, on the top navigation bar.
. Select the pinboard you want to create a schedule for.
. Click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Manage schedules* to view all of the schedules set for the pinboard.
. Click *+ Schedule* to add a new schedule.
+
On the *Add a Schedule* page, you create a new schedule for your pinboard.
+
image::scheduled_pinboards_1.png[]

. Set the values for your schedule:
+
Repeats::
  You can rebuild a pinboard every _n_ minutes, hourly, daily, weekly, or monthly. For some of these, you can also choose specific times of the day or days of the week. Make sure to note the *Server time zone*.
Name::
  Provide a short name for this schedule; for example, _Monthly Report Source_.
Description::
  Enter a description to remind yourself and to inform others. If this is an important schedule for a meeting or a report, you should mention that.
Type::
  * *CSV files* provide all data for tables, with one attachment fopr each table. Use CSV files to perform further analysis offline.
  * *PDF files* show all visualizations in the Pinboard. Each chart uses a page in the file; tables show only the first 100 rows of a table. Use PDF files to skim the data.
Gating condition::
  Write a statement that returns a single boolean value (`true` or `false`). For example, `sum (revenue) > 100` is a valid condition, but `is_weekend (commit_date)` is not, since it returns a result per row of data. You can use any data source (table, worksheet, or view) for the gating condition, since ThoughtSpot executes the query as an admin with access to all data sources. The gating condition formula and any tables you use in it do not need to be related to the pinboard the gating condition is for. You can use any valid formula in your statement. ThoughtSpot checks the formula syntax, but does not validate if the formula returns a valid single boolean.
+
At the scheduled time, ThoughtSpot executes the gating condition query as a ThoughtSpot admin user. If the condition evaluates to `true`, ThoughtSpot processes the Pinboard.
+
For a list of valid formulas, see xref:formula-reference.adoc[Formula function reference].
+
NOTE: ThoughtSpot executes the gating condition as a ThoughtSpot admin user. If you are using passthrough security for your external data warehouse connection, the gating condition may not work.
Recipients::
  You are limited to 1000 recipients for each job. You can add *Users* or *groups*. Use *Emails* to add recipients who are not ThoughtSpot users. Your ThoughtSpot admin must set these email domains as allowed domains in advance. Contact https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support^] to add allowed domains.
+
If you experience problems with sending email, your cluster may not have SMTP enabled. Contact your system administrator to resolve this issue.
. Click *Schedule* to save your schedule configuration.

include::partial$date-column-download.adoc[]

Commit message:

SCAL-97504 adding article to the nav and reference in pinboard schedule article
Signed-off-by: Teresa Killmond <teresa.killmond@thoughtspot.com>

software/modules/ROOT/pages/pinboard-schedule.adoc, after:

= Schedule a pinboard job
:last_updated: 02/11/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:
:page-partial:
:page-aliases: /admin/manage-jobs/schedule-a-pinboard-job.adoc

You can schedule a pinboard job for any Pinboard by using the *Add a schedule* prompt page.

You can add multiple schedules with different configurations for a single Pinboard. However, each job is limited to one Pinboard schedule. To add a schedule, you must either be an administrator, or have the *Schedule pinboard* privilege, and edit-only and view-only access or better.

To schedule a Pinboard, follow these steps:

. Sign in to ThoughtSpot from a browser.
. Click *Pinboards*, on the top navigation bar.
. Select the pinboard you want to create a schedule for.
. Click the *More* menu icon image:icon-ellipses.png[more options menu icon] and select *Manage schedules* to view all of the schedules set for the pinboard.
. Click *+ Schedule* to add a new schedule.
+
On the *Add a Schedule* page, you create a new schedule for your pinboard.
+
image::scheduled_pinboards_1.png[]

. Set the values for your schedule:
+
Repeats::
  You can rebuild a pinboard every _n_ minutes, hourly, daily, weekly, or monthly. For some of these, you can also choose specific times of the day or days of the week. Make sure to note the *Server time zone*.
Name::
  Provide a short name for this schedule; for example, _Monthly Report Source_.
Description::
  Enter a description to remind yourself and to inform others. If this is an important schedule for a meeting or a report, you should mention that.
Type::
  * *CSV files* provide all data for tables, with one attachment fopr each table. Use CSV files to perform further analysis offline.
  * *PDF files* show all visualizations in the Pinboard. Each chart uses a page in the file; tables show only the first 100 rows of a table. Use PDF files to skim the data.
Gating condition::
  Write a statement that returns a single boolean value (`true` or `false`). For example, `sum (revenue) > 100` is a valid condition, but `is_weekend (commit_date)` is not, since it returns a result per row of data. You can use any data source (table, worksheet, or view) for the gating condition, since ThoughtSpot executes the query as an admin with access to all data sources. The gating condition formula and any tables you use in it do not need to be related to the pinboard the gating condition is for. You can use any valid formula in your statement. ThoughtSpot checks the formula syntax, but does not validate if the formula returns a valid single boolean.
+
At the scheduled time, ThoughtSpot executes the gating condition query as a ThoughtSpot admin user. If the condition evaluates to `true`, ThoughtSpot processes the Pinboard.
+
For a list of valid formulas, see xref:formula-reference.adoc[Formula function reference].
+
For an in-depth example of a scenario where a gating condition is useful and powerful, refer to xref:pinboard-gating-condition-example.adoc[].
+
NOTE: ThoughtSpot executes the gating condition as a ThoughtSpot admin user. If you are using passthrough security for your external data warehouse connection, the gating condition may not work.
Recipients::
  You are limited to 1000 recipients for each job. You can add *Users* or *groups*. Use *Emails* to add recipients who are not ThoughtSpot users. Your ThoughtSpot admin must set these email domains as allowed domains in advance. Contact https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support^] to add allowed domains.
+
If you experience problems with sending email, your cluster may not have SMTP enabled. Contact your system administrator to resolve this issue.
. Click *Schedule* to save your schedule configuration.

include::partial$date-column-download.adoc[]
