software/modules/ROOT/pages/rhel-install-online.adoc, before:

= Install the ThoughtSpot application on online clusters that use RHEL or OEL
:last_updated: 8/6/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

Install ThoughtSpot on RHEL or OEL online clusters.

Before starting the install, make sure that you completed the xref:rhel-prerequisites.adoc[pre-installation steps].

In an online cluster, the hosts can access the public repositories to download the required packages.

Before you build the ThoughtSpot cluster and install the ThoughtSpot application on the hosts, you must run the Ansible playbook. The TS Ansible playbook prepares your clusters in the following manner:

- Ansible installs the required packages: YAML, Python, and R packages; see xref:rhel-packages.adoc[Packages installed with ThoughtSpot for RHEL and OEL].
- It creates and configures local user accounts for ThoughtSpot:
   - `admin` user has full administrative functionality
   - `thoughtspot` user can load data in the application
- It installs the ThoughtSpot CLI, `tscli`.
- It configures the ThoughtSpot host nodes:
   - checks that customization scripts can execute on the nodes
   - checks that the partitions meet minimum size requirements

These are the general steps for installing ThoughtSpot on RHEL clussters:

[cols="5,~",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
| &#10063; | xref:configure-ansible[1. Configure the Ansible Playbook]
| &#10063; | xref:run-ansible[2. Run the Ansible Playbook]
| &#10063; | xref:install-thoughtspot[3. Install ThoughtSpot]
|===

[#configure-ansible]
== Configure the Ansible Playbook

To set up the Ansible, follow these steps:

. Obtain the Ansible tarball from https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support^].
. Download it to your local machine.
. Unzip the Ansible tarball, to see the following files and directories on your local machine:

`customize.sh`:: This script runs as the last step in the preparation process. You can use it to inject deployment-specific customizations, such as enabling or disabling a corporate proxy, configuring extra SSH keys, installing extra services, and so on. Additionally, you can include the `prepare_disks` script here.
+
Add the following line to the `customize.sh` file:
+
[source]
----
sudo /usr/local/scaligent/bin/prepare_disks.sh.
----

`hosts.sample`::

`prod_image`::
  This directory contains the ThoughtSpot tools and `tscli`, the ThoughtSpot CLI binary.

`README.md`::
  Basic information for the unzipped file

`rpm_gpg`::
  This directory contains the https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_network/5.0.0/html/client_configuration_guide/ch-gpg-keys[GPG keys^] that authenticate the public repository.

`toolchain`::
  The tools that are necessary to compile the instructions you define in the Ansible Playbook, the source code, into executables that can run on your device. The toolchain includes a compiler, a linker, and run-time libraries.

`ts-new.yaml`::
  The Ansible Playbook for new installations.

`ts-update.yaml`::
  The Ansible Playbook for updates.

`ts.yaml`::

`yum.repos.d`::
  This directory contains information about the yum repo used by the cluster.

. Copy the Ansible inventory file `hosts.sample` to `hosts.yaml`, and then use a text editor of your choice to update the file to include your host configuration:

`hosts`::
    Add the IP addresses or hostnames of all hosts in the ThoughtSpot cluster.

`admin_uid`::
    The admin user ID parameter.

    On-premise deployments;;
      Use the default values.
    AWS;;
      Use the default values.
    GCP;;
      Add values that are not currently in use. To determine what values your system uses already, run the following command:
+
[source]
----
cat /etc/passwd | cut -d ":" -f3-4| sort
----

`admin_gid`::
  The admin user group ID.
  On-premise deployments;;
    Use the default values.
  AWS;;
    Use the default values.
  GCP;;
    Add values that are not currently in use. To determine what values your system uses already, run the following command:
+
[source]
----
cat /etc/passwd | cut -d ":" -f3-4| sort
----
[#ldap_admin_user]
`ldap_admin_user`::
*[optional]* One of three parameters required to enable users to use their OpenLDAP admin user to SSH as an admin, instead of using the local ThoughtSpot admin user, which has sudo privileges. Specify the OpenLDAP admin user, in the form _example@company.com_. You must include all 3 of the LDAP parameters (`ldap_admin_user`, `ldap_server_uri`, `ldap_server_base`), or none of them. If you include 1 or 2, the playbook fails.
`ldap_server_uri`::
*[optional]* One of three parameters required to enable users to use their OpenLDAP admin user to SSH as an admin, instead of using the local ThoughtSpot admin user, which has sudo privileges. Specify the LDAP server uniform resource identifier, in the form _ldap://<ldap_server_IP>_. You must include all 3 of the LDAP parameters (`ldap_admin_user`, `ldap_server_uri`, `ldap_server_base`), or none of them. If you include 1 or 2, the playbook fails.
`ldap_server_base`::
*[optional]* One of three parameters required to enable users to use their OpenLDAP admin user to SSH as an admin, instead of using the local ThoughtSpot admin user, which has sudo privileges. Specify the LDAP server base distinguished name, in the form _dc=<optional_subdomain>_,_dc=<domain>_,_dc=<top-level-domain>_, such as _dc=thoughtspot_,_dc=com_. You must include all 3 of the LDAP parameters (`ldap_admin_user`, `ldap_server_uri`, `ldap_server_base`), or none of them. If you include 1 or 2, the playbook fails.
`ssh_user`::
  The `ssh_user` must exist on the ThoughtSpot host, and it must have `sudo` privileges.
  On-premise deployments;;
    The `ssh_user` is the user who runs the playbook, and who is connected to the hosts.
  AWS;;
    The same as `ec2_user`.
  GCP;;
    The `ssh_user` is the user who runs the playbook, and who is connected to the hosts.

`ssh_private_key`::
  Add the private key for `ssh` access to the `hosts.yaml` file. You can use an existing key pair, or generate a new key pair in the Ansible Control server.
+
Run the following command to verify that the Ansible Control Server can connect to the hosts over `ssh`:
+
[source]
----
ansible -m ping -i hosts.yaml all
----

`ssh_public_key`::
  Add the public key to the `ssh authorized_keys` file for each host, and add the private key to the `hosts.yaml` file. You can use an existing key pair, or generate a new key pair in the Ansible Control server.
+
Run the following command to verify that the Ansible Control Server can connect to the hosts over `ssh`:
+
[source]
----
ansible -m ping -i hosts.yaml all
----

`extra_admin_ssh_key`::
  (Optional) An additional or extra key may be required by your security application, such as Qualys, to connect to the hosts.

`http(s)_proxy`::
  If the hosts must access public repositories through an internal proxy service, provide the proxy information.
+
This release of ThoughtSpot does not support proxy credentials to authenticate to the proxy service.

`ts_partition_name`::
  The extended name of the ThoughtSpot export partition, such as `/dev/sdb1`.

[#run-ansible]
== Run the Ansible Playbook

Run the Ansible Playbook from your local machine by entering the following command:

[source]
----
ansible-playbook -i hosts.yaml ts.yaml
----

As the Ansible Playbook runs, it will perform these tasks:

. Trigger the installation of xref:rhel-packages.adoc[Yum, Python, and R packages]
. Configure the local user accounts that the ThoughtSpot application uses
. Install the ThoughtSpot CLI
. Configure all the nodes in the ThoughtSpot cluster:
    - Format and create export partitions, if they do not exist
    - Format the data disks

After the Ansible Playbook finishes, run the `prepare_disks` script on every node, if you did not include it in the `customize.sh` file. Specify the data drives by adding the full device path for all data drives, such as `/dev/sdc`, after the script name. Separate data drives with a space.

[source]
----
sudo /usr/local/scaligent/bin/prepare_disks.sh /dev/sdc /dev/sdd
----

Your hosts are ready for installing the ThoughtSpot application.

[#install-thoughtspot]
== Install the ThoughtSpot cluster and the application

Refer to the ThoughtSpot documentation for the detailed steps to install the ThoughtSpot cluster for each deployment platform:

- [*_RHEL only_*] xref:hardware-appliance.adoc[Hardware appliance]
- xref:aws-configuration-options.adoc[Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2]
- [*_RHEL only_*] xref:azure-configuration-options.adoc[Microsoft Azure]
- xref:gcp-configuration-options.adoc[Google Cloud Platform (GCP)]
- xref:vmware.adoc[VMware]

Follow these general steps to install ThoughtSpot on the prepared hosts:

. Connect to the host as an admin user.
. Download the release artifact from the ThoughtSpot file sharing system.
. Upload the release artifact to the first host.
. Run the `tscli cluster create` command. This script prompts for user input.
. Check the cluster health by running health checks and logging into the application.

Commit message:

support contact links
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/ROOT/pages/rhel-install-online.adoc, after:

= Install the ThoughtSpot application on online clusters that use RHEL or OEL
:last_updated: 8/6/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

Install ThoughtSpot on RHEL or OEL online clusters.

Before starting the install, make sure that you completed the xref:rhel-prerequisites.adoc[pre-installation steps].

In an online cluster, the hosts can access the public repositories to download the required packages.

Before you build the ThoughtSpot cluster and install the ThoughtSpot application on the hosts, you must run the Ansible playbook. The TS Ansible playbook prepares your clusters in the following manner:

- Ansible installs the required packages: YAML, Python, and R packages; see xref:rhel-packages.adoc[Packages installed with ThoughtSpot for RHEL and OEL].
- It creates and configures local user accounts for ThoughtSpot:
   - `admin` user has full administrative functionality
   - `thoughtspot` user can load data in the application
- It installs the ThoughtSpot CLI, `tscli`.
- It configures the ThoughtSpot host nodes:
   - checks that customization scripts can execute on the nodes
   - checks that the partitions meet minimum size requirements

These are the general steps for installing ThoughtSpot on RHEL clussters:

[cols="5,~",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
| &#10063; | xref:configure-ansible[1. Configure the Ansible Playbook]
| &#10063; | xref:run-ansible[2. Run the Ansible Playbook]
| &#10063; | xref:install-thoughtspot[3. Install ThoughtSpot]
|===

[#configure-ansible]
== Configure the Ansible Playbook

To set up the Ansible, follow these steps:

. Obtain the Ansible tarball from xref:support-contact.adoc[ThoughtSpot Support].
. Download it to your local machine.
. Unzip the Ansible tarball, to see the following files and directories on your local machine:

`customize.sh`:: This script runs as the last step in the preparation process. You can use it to inject deployment-specific customizations, such as enabling or disabling a corporate proxy, configuring extra SSH keys, installing extra services, and so on. Additionally, you can include the `prepare_disks` script here.
+
Add the following line to the `customize.sh` file:
+
[source]
----
sudo /usr/local/scaligent/bin/prepare_disks.sh.
----

`hosts.sample`::

`prod_image`::
  This directory contains the ThoughtSpot tools and `tscli`, the ThoughtSpot CLI binary.

`README.md`::
  Basic information for the unzipped file

`rpm_gpg`::
  This directory contains the https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_network/5.0.0/html/client_configuration_guide/ch-gpg-keys[GPG keys^] that authenticate the public repository.

`toolchain`::
  The tools that are necessary to compile the instructions you define in the Ansible Playbook, the source code, into executables that can run on your device. The toolchain includes a compiler, a linker, and run-time libraries.

`ts-new.yaml`::
  The Ansible Playbook for new installations.

`ts-update.yaml`::
  The Ansible Playbook for updates.

`ts.yaml`::

`yum.repos.d`::
  This directory contains information about the yum repo used by the cluster.

. Copy the Ansible inventory file `hosts.sample` to `hosts.yaml`, and then use a text editor of your choice to update the file to include your host configuration:

`hosts`::
    Add the IP addresses or hostnames of all hosts in the ThoughtSpot cluster.

`admin_uid`::
    The admin user ID parameter.

    On-premise deployments;;
      Use the default values.
    AWS;;
      Use the default values.
    GCP;;
      Add values that are not currently in use. To determine what values your system uses already, run the following command:
+
[source]
----
cat /etc/passwd | cut -d ":" -f3-4| sort
----

`admin_gid`::
  The admin user group ID.
  On-premise deployments;;
    Use the default values.
  AWS;;
    Use the default values.
  GCP;;
    Add values that are not currently in use. To determine what values your system uses already, run the following command:
+
[source]
----
cat /etc/passwd | cut -d ":" -f3-4| sort
----
[#ldap_admin_user]
`ldap_admin_user`::
*[optional]* One of three parameters required to enable users to use their OpenLDAP admin user to SSH as an admin, instead of using the local ThoughtSpot admin user, which has sudo privileges. Specify the OpenLDAP admin user, in the form _example@company.com_. You must include all 3 of the LDAP parameters (`ldap_admin_user`, `ldap_server_uri`, `ldap_server_base`), or none of them. If you include 1 or 2, the playbook fails.
`ldap_server_uri`::
*[optional]* One of three parameters required to enable users to use their OpenLDAP admin user to SSH as an admin, instead of using the local ThoughtSpot admin user, which has sudo privileges. Specify the LDAP server uniform resource identifier, in the form _ldap://<ldap_server_IP>_. You must include all 3 of the LDAP parameters (`ldap_admin_user`, `ldap_server_uri`, `ldap_server_base`), or none of them. If you include 1 or 2, the playbook fails.
`ldap_server_base`::
*[optional]* One of three parameters required to enable users to use their OpenLDAP admin user to SSH as an admin, instead of using the local ThoughtSpot admin user, which has sudo privileges. Specify the LDAP server base distinguished name, in the form _dc=<optional_subdomain>_,_dc=<domain>_,_dc=<top-level-domain>_, such as _dc=thoughtspot_,_dc=com_. You must include all 3 of the LDAP parameters (`ldap_admin_user`, `ldap_server_uri`, `ldap_server_base`), or none of them. If you include 1 or 2, the playbook fails.
`ssh_user`::
  The `ssh_user` must exist on the ThoughtSpot host, and it must have `sudo` privileges.
  On-premise deployments;;
    The `ssh_user` is the user who runs the playbook, and who is connected to the hosts.
  AWS;;
    The same as `ec2_user`.
  GCP;;
    The `ssh_user` is the user who runs the playbook, and who is connected to the hosts.

`ssh_private_key`::
  Add the private key for `ssh` access to the `hosts.yaml` file. You can use an existing key pair, or generate a new key pair in the Ansible Control server.
+
Run the following command to verify that the Ansible Control Server can connect to the hosts over `ssh`:
+
[source]
----
ansible -m ping -i hosts.yaml all
----

`ssh_public_key`::
  Add the public key to the `ssh authorized_keys` file for each host, and add the private key to the `hosts.yaml` file. You can use an existing key pair, or generate a new key pair in the Ansible Control server.
+
Run the following command to verify that the Ansible Control Server can connect to the hosts over `ssh`:
+
[source]
----
ansible -m ping -i hosts.yaml all
----

`extra_admin_ssh_key`::
  (Optional) An additional or extra key may be required by your security application, such as Qualys, to connect to the hosts.

`http(s)_proxy`::
  If the hosts must access public repositories through an internal proxy service, provide the proxy information.
+
This release of ThoughtSpot does not support proxy credentials to authenticate to the proxy service.

`ts_partition_name`::
  The extended name of the ThoughtSpot export partition, such as `/dev/sdb1`.

[#run-ansible]
== Run the Ansible Playbook

Run the Ansible Playbook from your local machine by entering the following command:

[source]
----
ansible-playbook -i hosts.yaml ts.yaml
----

As the Ansible Playbook runs, it will perform these tasks:

. Trigger the installation of xref:rhel-packages.adoc[Yum, Python, and R packages]
. Configure the local user accounts that the ThoughtSpot application uses
. Install the ThoughtSpot CLI
. Configure all the nodes in the ThoughtSpot cluster:
    - Format and create export partitions, if they do not exist
    - Format the data disks

After the Ansible Playbook finishes, run the `prepare_disks` script on every node, if you did not include it in the `customize.sh` file. Specify the data drives by adding the full device path for all data drives, such as `/dev/sdc`, after the script name. Separate data drives with a space.

[source]
----
sudo /usr/local/scaligent/bin/prepare_disks.sh /dev/sdc /dev/sdd
----

Your hosts are ready for installing the ThoughtSpot application.

[#install-thoughtspot]
== Install the ThoughtSpot cluster and the application

Refer to the ThoughtSpot documentation for the detailed steps to install the ThoughtSpot cluster for each deployment platform:

- [*_RHEL only_*] xref:hardware-appliance.adoc[Hardware appliance]
- xref:aws-configuration-options.adoc[Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2]
- [*_RHEL only_*] xref:azure-configuration-options.adoc[Microsoft Azure]
- xref:gcp-configuration-options.adoc[Google Cloud Platform (GCP)]
- xref:vmware.adoc[VMware]

Follow these general steps to install ThoughtSpot on the prepared hosts:

. Connect to the host as an admin user.
. Download the release artifact from the ThoughtSpot file sharing system.
. Upload the release artifact to the first host.
. Run the `tscli cluster create` command. This script prompts for user input.
. Check the cluster health by running health checks and logging into the application.
