software/modules/ROOT/pages/search-proximity.adoc, before:

= Proximity searches "near" and "farther than
:last_updated: 12/31/2020
:experimental:
:linkattrs:
:page-aliases: /admin/features/proximity-search.adoc

If your table contains Latitude and Longitude data, you can use proximity searches that find entities related to each other by location.

Proximity keywords allow you to search for data on locations `near` or `farther than` _n_ number of miles from a specified location.

For example, you could search for `sales` by `store county near santa clara county within 50 miles`, or `sales` by `store city farther than 50 miles from santa clara county`.

Note that you can *_only_* use the `near` and `farther than` keywords on data sources that have `latitude` and `longitude` data.
The latitude and longitude columns must be xref:data-types.adoc#geo[configured as geographical data].

*The `near` keyword*

image::geo-proximity-search-example.png[Proximity search with the near keyword]

*The `farther than` keyword*

image::geo-proximity-search-farther-than.png[Proximity search with the farther than keyword]

== Proximity search syntax

There are two proximity search keywords: `near` and `farther than`.
Here is the syntax for these keywords:

* `<column> near <location>` +
+
example: `store city near tokyo`

* `<column> near <location> within <n> (miles | km | meters)` +
+
example: `store city near tokyo within 50 miles`

* `<column> farther than <n> (miles | km | meters) from <location>` +
+
example: `store city farther than 50 miles from tokyo`

`Store city` in these examples refers to the name of the column that `tokyo` falls under in the data.
You must specify the name of the column for the location you are searching on *_before_* entering the `near` or `farther than` keyword.

== How proximity search works

ThoughtSpot calculates the distance from the location you specify in a proximity search as a straight-line distance (not road distance) radius, using miles, kilometers, or meters from the central point.
If you do not specify a distance, the system uses 10 km as the default.

To increase the 10 km default, contact https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support^].

Given a location and an optional distance, the search returns all instances of a geotype column that fall within the parameters.
For example, for the `near santa clara county` search shown above, the system searches for rows with `santa clara county` in it and finds the corresponding latitude and longitude columns.
The system can handle up to 30 latitude/ longitude pairs for a given geographical value, like a city, country, or county.
Then, ThoughtSpot finds all latitude/ longitude pairs with a direct distance of less than 10 km or a specified distance from the `santa clara county` latitude/ longitude pairs.

To increase the maximum number of latitude/ longitude pairs that can be associated with a given geographical value, contact https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support^].

You can add any additional filtering to your query.

== Proximity search configuration requirements

* You must use a single data source, like a table, Worksheet, or View, to run a proximity search.
You cannot search on two different tables, related by a join, like you can in a typical ThoughtSpot search.
To search on two (or more) different tables, xref:worksheets.adoc[create a Worksheet] that contains data from those tables and use the Worksheet as your data source.
* Your data source must contain a column of type `longitude` and a column of type `latitude`.
* Your administrators must xref:data-types.adoc#geo[configure the latitude and longitude columns] using the appropriate GeoType.
* Your administrators must enable this feature.
If you are having trouble using proximity search, and all other configuration requirements are met, the feature may be turned off.
Ask your administrator to contact https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support^] to turn the feature on.

Commit message:

contact support xref
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/ROOT/pages/search-proximity.adoc, after:

= Proximity searches "near" and "farther than
:last_updated: 12/31/2020
:experimental:
:linkattrs:
:page-aliases: /admin/features/proximity-search.adoc

If your table contains Latitude and Longitude data, you can use proximity searches that find entities related to each other by location.

Proximity keywords allow you to search for data on locations `near` or `farther than` _n_ number of miles from a specified location.

For example, you could search for `sales` by `store county near santa clara county within 50 miles`, or `sales` by `store city farther than 50 miles from santa clara county`.

Note that you can *_only_* use the `near` and `farther than` keywords on data sources that have `latitude` and `longitude` data.
The latitude and longitude columns must be xref:data-types.adoc#geo[configured as geographical data].

*The `near` keyword*

image::geo-proximity-search-example.png[Proximity search with the near keyword]

*The `farther than` keyword*

image::geo-proximity-search-farther-than.png[Proximity search with the farther than keyword]

== Proximity search syntax

There are two proximity search keywords: `near` and `farther than`.
Here is the syntax for these keywords:

* `<column> near <location>` +
+
example: `store city near tokyo`

* `<column> near <location> within <n> (miles | km | meters)` +
+
example: `store city near tokyo within 50 miles`

* `<column> farther than <n> (miles | km | meters) from <location>` +
+
example: `store city farther than 50 miles from tokyo`

`Store city` in these examples refers to the name of the column that `tokyo` falls under in the data.
You must specify the name of the column for the location you are searching on *_before_* entering the `near` or `farther than` keyword.

== How proximity search works

ThoughtSpot calculates the distance from the location you specify in a proximity search as a straight-line distance (not road distance) radius, using miles, kilometers, or meters from the central point.
If you do not specify a distance, the system uses 10 km as the default.

To increase the 10 km default, contact xref:support-contact.adoc[ThoughtSpot Support].

Given a location and an optional distance, the search returns all instances of a geotype column that fall within the parameters.
For example, for the `near santa clara county` search shown above, the system searches for rows with `santa clara county` in it and finds the corresponding latitude and longitude columns.
The system can handle up to 30 latitude/ longitude pairs for a given geographical value, like a city, country, or county.
Then, ThoughtSpot finds all latitude/ longitude pairs with a direct distance of less than 10 km or a specified distance from the `santa clara county` latitude/ longitude pairs.

To increase the maximum number of latitude/ longitude pairs that can be associated with a given geographical value, contact xref:support-contact.adoc[ThoughtSpot Support].

You can add any additional filtering to your query.

== Proximity search configuration requirements

* You must use a single data source, like a table, Worksheet, or View, to run a proximity search.
You cannot search on two different tables, related by a join, like you can in a typical ThoughtSpot search.
To search on two (or more) different tables, xref:worksheets.adoc[create a Worksheet] that contains data from those tables and use the Worksheet as your data source.
* Your data source must contain a column of type `longitude` and a column of type `latitude`.
* Your administrators must xref:data-types.adoc#geo[configure the latitude and longitude columns] using the appropriate GeoType.
* Your administrators must enable this feature.
If you are having trouble using proximity search, and all other configuration requirements are met, the feature may be turned off.
Ask your administrator to contact xref:support-contact.adoc[ThoughtSpot Support] to turn the feature on.
