software/modules/ROOT/pages/share-source-tables.adoc, before:

= Sharing tables and columns
:last_updated: 2/12/2020
:experimental:
:linkattrs:
:page-partial:

As an administrator, you can share view or edit access to any table.

By default, when a table is loaded using the ThoughtSpot Loader, ODBC, or JDBC, it is only visible to administrators.
Tables imported from a Web browser are visible to administrators and the user who uploaded it.
Administrators and owners can share *Can View* or *Can Edit* privileges on tables with other users, who can further share them with others.

When you share a table, you can share the entire table, or specific columns.
For column level security (CLS), share only specific columns.

== Permissive or strict sharing

Use caution when sharing tables, because any objects created from that table will have dependencies on it and its underlying structure.
Objects created from tables can include Worksheets, Views, Answers, and Pinboards.
This means that if a user wants to drop or modify a table, any object that depends upon it must be edited or removed first, to remove the dependency.

For this reason, it is a best practice to only grant the *Edit* permission on a table to a small number of users.
If you want to prevent shares from also revealing the columns regardless of where it appears (Worksheets, Answers, and Pinboards), you can ask https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support^] to enable a stricter behavior.

You can share a table or multiple tables <<share-datatab,from the *Data* tab>>, or share a single table <<share-dataset,from within the table>> that you want to share.

include::partial$share-data.adoc[]

Commit message:

contact support xref
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/ROOT/pages/share-source-tables.adoc, after:

= Sharing tables and columns
:last_updated: 2/12/2020
:experimental:
:linkattrs:
:page-partial:

As an administrator, you can share view or edit access to any table.

By default, when a table is loaded using the ThoughtSpot Loader, ODBC, or JDBC, it is only visible to administrators.
Tables imported from a Web browser are visible to administrators and the user who uploaded it.
Administrators and owners can share *Can View* or *Can Edit* privileges on tables with other users, who can further share them with others.

When you share a table, you can share the entire table, or specific columns.
For column level security (CLS), share only specific columns.

== Permissive or strict sharing

Use caution when sharing tables, because any objects created from that table will have dependencies on it and its underlying structure.
Objects created from tables can include Worksheets, Views, Answers, and Pinboards.
This means that if a user wants to drop or modify a table, any object that depends upon it must be edited or removed first, to remove the dependency.

For this reason, it is a best practice to only grant the *Edit* permission on a table to a small number of users.
If you want to prevent shares from also revealing the columns regardless of where it appears (Worksheets, Answers, and Pinboards), you can ask xref:support-contact.adoc[ThoughtSpot Support] to enable a stricter behavior.

You can share a table or multiple tables <<share-datatab,from the *Data* tab>>, or share a single table <<share-dataset,from within the table>> that you want to share.

include::partial$share-data.adoc[]
