software/modules/ROOT/pages/smc-cluster-install.adoc, before:

= Install ThoughtSpot Clusters on the SMC Appliance
:last_updated: 01/03/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

Install your clusters on the SMC appliance using the ThoughtSpot software release bundle. Installation takes approximately one hour.
Make sure you can connect to ThoughtSpot remotely.
You may be able to run the installer on your local computer.

'''
> **ThoughtSpot Training**
>
> * For best results when installing ThoughtSpot on the SMC appliance, we recommend that you take the following ThoughtSpot U course: https://training.thoughtspot.com/create-upgrade-patch-a-thoughtspot-cluster/430642[Create a Cluster^].
> * See other training resources at https://training.thoughtspot.com/[ThoughtSpot U^].

'''

Refer to your welcome letter from ThoughtSpot to find the link to download the release bundle.
If you have not received a link to download the release bundle, open a support ticket with https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support^].

[cols="5,~",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
| &#10063; | <<install-step-1,Step 1: Run the installer>>
| &#10063; | <<install-step-2,Step 2: Check cluster health>>
| &#10063; | <<install-step-3,Step 3: Finalize installation>>
|===

[#install-step-1]
== Step 1. Run the Installer

. Copy the downloaded release bundle to `/export/sdb1/TS_TASKS/install`.
Run `scp <release-number>.tar.gz admin@<hostname>:/export/sdb1/TS_TASKS/install/<file-name>`.
+
Note the following parameters:

`release-number`:: is the release number of your ThoughtSpot installation, such as `6.0`, `5.3`, `5.3.1`, and so on.
`hostname`:: is your specific hostname.
`file-name`:: is the name of the tarball file on your local machine.
+
[source,bash]
----
$ scp <release-number>.tar.gz admin@<hostname>:/export/sdb1/TS_TASKS/install/<file-name>
----

+
NOTE: You can use another secure copy method, if you prefer a method other than the `scp` command.

. Alternatively, use `tscli fileserver download-release` to download the release bundle.
+
You must xref:tscli-command-ref.adoc#tscli-fileserver[configure the fileserver] by running `tscli fileserver configure` before you can download the release.
+
[source,bash]
----
$ tscli fileserver download-release <release-number> --user <username> --out <release-location>
----
+
Note the following parameters:

`release-number`:: is the release number of your ThoughtSpot instance, such as 5.3, 5.3.1, 6.0, and so on.
`username`:: is the username for the fileserver that you set up earlier, when configuring the fileserver.
`release-location`:: is the location path of the release bundle on your local machine. For example, `/export/sdb1/TS_TASKS/install/6.0.tar.gz`.

. Verify the checksum to ensure you have the correct release.
+
Run `md5sum -c <release-number>.tar.gz.MD5checksum`.
+
[source,bash]
----
 $ md5sum -c <release-number>.tar.gz.MD5checksum
----
+
Your output says `ok` if you have the correct release.

. Launch a https://linux.die.net/man/1/screen[screen^] session. Use `screen` to ensure that your installation does not stop if you lose network connectivity.
+
[source,bash]
----
 $ screen -S DEPLOYMENT
----

. Take a machine snapshot prior to the release deployment, as a best practice.

. Create the cluster. Run:
+
[source,bash]
----
 $ tscli cluster create <release-number>.tar.gz
----

. Edit the output using your specific cluster information.
For more information on this process, refer to xref:cluster-create.adoc[Using the tscli cluster create command] and xref:parameters-cluster-create.adoc[Parameters of the `cluster create` command].

. The cluster installer automatically reboots all the nodes after the install.
Wait at least 15 minutes for the installation process to complete.
The system is rebooting, which takes a few minutes.
+
Log in to any node to check the current cluster status by running this command:
+
[source,bash]
----
tscli cluster status
----

[#install-step-2]
== Step 2. Check Cluster Health

After you install the cluster, check its status using the `tscli cluster status` and `tscli cluster check` commands.

[source,bash]
----
$ tscli cluster status
Cluster: RUNNING
Cluster name    : thoughtspot
Cluster id      : 1234X11111
Number of nodes : 3
Release         : 6.0
Last update     = Wed Oct 16 02:24:18 2019
Heterogeneous Cluster : False
Storage Type    : HDFS

Database: READY
Number of tables in READY state: 2185
Number of tables in OFFLINE state: 0
Number of tables in INPROGRESS state: 0
Number of tables in STALE state: 0
Number of tables in ERROR state: 0

Search Engine: READY
Has pending tables. Pending time = 1601679ms
Number of tables in KNOWN_TABLES state: 1934
Number of tables in READY state: 1928
Number of tables in WILL_REMOVE state: 0
Number of tables in BUILDING_AND_NOT_SERVING state: 0
Number of tables in BUILDING_AND_SERVING state: 128
Number of tables in WILL_NOT_INDEX state: 0
----

Ensure that the cluster is `RUNNING` and that the Database and Search Engine are `READY`.

Your output may look something like the following listing.
Ensure that all diagnostics show `SUCCESS`.

CAUTION: If `tscli cluster check` returns an error, it may suggest you run `tscli storage gc` to resolve the issue.
If you run `tscli storage gc`, note that it restarts your cluster.

[source,bash]
----
$ tscli cluster check
 Connecting to hosts...
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] START Diagnosing ssh
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] START Diagnosing connection
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] START Diagnosing zookeeper
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] START Diagnosing sage
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] START Diagnosing timezone
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] START Diagnosing disk
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] START Diagnosing cassandra
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] START Diagnosing hdfs
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:02 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:02 2020] START Diagnosing orion-oreo
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:02 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:02 2020] START Diagnosing memcheck
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:02 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:02 2020] START Diagnosing ntp
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:08 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:08 2020] START Diagnosing trace_vault
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:09 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:09 2020] START Diagnosing postgres
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:11 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:11 2020] START Diagnosing disk-health
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:11 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:11 2020] START Diagnosing falcon
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:12 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:12 2020] START Diagnosing orion-cgroups
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:12 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:12 2020] START Diagnosing callosum
 /usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/urllib3/connectionpool.py:852: InsecureRequestWarning: Unverified HTTPS request is being made. Adding certificate verification is strongly advised. See: https://urllib3.readthedocs.io/en/latest/advanced-usage.html#ssl-warnings
   InsecureRequestWarning)
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:12 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
----

[#install-step-3]
== Step 3. Finalize Installation

After the cluster status changes to "`Ready,`" sign in to the ThoughtSpot application on your browser.

Follow these steps:

. Start a browser from your computer.
. Enter your secure IP information on the address line.
+
[source,bash]
----
 https://<IP-address>
----

. If you don't have a security certificate for ThoughtSpot, you must bypass the security warning to proceed:
 ** Click *Advanced*
 ** Click *Proceed*
. The ThoughtSpot sign-in page appears.
. In the xref:smc-cluster-install.adoc#ts-login[ThoughtSpot sign-in window], enter admin credentials, and click *Sign in*.
If you do not know the admin credentials, ask your network administrator.
ThoughtSpot recommends changing the default admin password.
+
[#ts-login]
image:ts-login-page.png[ThoughtSpot's sign-in window]

== Lean configuration

*For use with thin provisioning only:* If you have a xref:deploying-cloud.adoc#small-medium[small or medium instance type], with less than 100GB of data, you must use advanced lean configuration before loading any data into ThoughtSpot.
After installing the cluster, contact https://community.thoughtspot.com/customers/s/contactsupport[ThoughtSpot Support^] for assistance with this configuration.

== Error recovery

[#set-config-error-recovery]
=== `Set-config` error recovery

If you get a warning about node detection when you run the `set-config` command, restart the node-scout service.

Your error may look something like the following:

[source,bash]
----
Connecting to local node-scout WARNING: Detected 0 nodes, but found configuration for only 1 nodes.
Continuing anyway. Error in cluster config validation: [] is not a valid link-local IPv6 address for node: 0e:86:e2:23:8f:76 Configuration failed.
Please retry or contact support.
----

Restart the node-scout service with the following command.

[source,bash]
----
 $ sudo systemctl restart node-scout
----

Ensure that you restarted the node-scout by running `sudo systemctl status node-scout`.
Your output should specify that the node-scout service is active.
It may look something like the following:

[source,bash]
----
$ sudo systemctl status node-scout
   ● node-scout.service - Setup Node Scout service
     Loaded: loaded (/etc/systemd/system/node-scout.service; enabled; vendor preset: disabled)
     Active: active (running) since Fri 2019-12-06 13:56:29 PST; 4s ago
----

Next, retry the set-config command.

[source,bash]
----
$ cat nodes.config | tscli cluster set-config
----

The command output should no longer have a warning.

Commit message:

contact support xref
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/ROOT/pages/smc-cluster-install.adoc, after:

= Install ThoughtSpot Clusters on the SMC Appliance
:last_updated: 01/03/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:

Install your clusters on the SMC appliance using the ThoughtSpot software release bundle. Installation takes approximately one hour.
Make sure you can connect to ThoughtSpot remotely.
You may be able to run the installer on your local computer.

'''
> **ThoughtSpot Training**
>
> * For best results when installing ThoughtSpot on the SMC appliance, we recommend that you take the following ThoughtSpot U course: https://training.thoughtspot.com/create-upgrade-patch-a-thoughtspot-cluster/430642[Create a Cluster^].
> * See other training resources at https://training.thoughtspot.com/[ThoughtSpot U^].

'''

Refer to your welcome letter from ThoughtSpot to find the link to download the release bundle.
If you have not received a link to download the release bundle, open a support ticket with xref:support-contact.adoc[ThoughtSpot Support].

[cols="5,~",grid=none,frame=none]
|===
| &#10063; | <<install-step-1,Step 1: Run the installer>>
| &#10063; | <<install-step-2,Step 2: Check cluster health>>
| &#10063; | <<install-step-3,Step 3: Finalize installation>>
|===

[#install-step-1]
== Step 1. Run the Installer

. Copy the downloaded release bundle to `/export/sdb1/TS_TASKS/install`.
Run `scp <release-number>.tar.gz admin@<hostname>:/export/sdb1/TS_TASKS/install/<file-name>`.
+
Note the following parameters:

`release-number`:: is the release number of your ThoughtSpot installation, such as `6.0`, `5.3`, `5.3.1`, and so on.
`hostname`:: is your specific hostname.
`file-name`:: is the name of the tarball file on your local machine.
+
[source,bash]
----
$ scp <release-number>.tar.gz admin@<hostname>:/export/sdb1/TS_TASKS/install/<file-name>
----

+
NOTE: You can use another secure copy method, if you prefer a method other than the `scp` command.

. Alternatively, use `tscli fileserver download-release` to download the release bundle.
+
You must xref:tscli-command-ref.adoc#tscli-fileserver[configure the fileserver] by running `tscli fileserver configure` before you can download the release.
+
[source,bash]
----
$ tscli fileserver download-release <release-number> --user <username> --out <release-location>
----
+
Note the following parameters:

`release-number`:: is the release number of your ThoughtSpot instance, such as 5.3, 5.3.1, 6.0, and so on.
`username`:: is the username for the fileserver that you set up earlier, when configuring the fileserver.
`release-location`:: is the location path of the release bundle on your local machine. For example, `/export/sdb1/TS_TASKS/install/6.0.tar.gz`.

. Verify the checksum to ensure you have the correct release.
+
Run `md5sum -c <release-number>.tar.gz.MD5checksum`.
+
[source,bash]
----
 $ md5sum -c <release-number>.tar.gz.MD5checksum
----
+
Your output says `ok` if you have the correct release.

. Launch a https://linux.die.net/man/1/screen[screen^] session. Use `screen` to ensure that your installation does not stop if you lose network connectivity.
+
[source,bash]
----
 $ screen -S DEPLOYMENT
----

. Take a machine snapshot prior to the release deployment, as a best practice.

. Create the cluster. Run:
+
[source,bash]
----
 $ tscli cluster create <release-number>.tar.gz
----

. Edit the output using your specific cluster information.
For more information on this process, refer to xref:cluster-create.adoc[Using the tscli cluster create command] and xref:parameters-cluster-create.adoc[Parameters of the `cluster create` command].

. The cluster installer automatically reboots all the nodes after the install.
Wait at least 15 minutes for the installation process to complete.
The system is rebooting, which takes a few minutes.
+
Log in to any node to check the current cluster status by running this command:
+
[source,bash]
----
tscli cluster status
----

[#install-step-2]
== Step 2. Check Cluster Health

After you install the cluster, check its status using the `tscli cluster status` and `tscli cluster check` commands.

[source,bash]
----
$ tscli cluster status
Cluster: RUNNING
Cluster name    : thoughtspot
Cluster id      : 1234X11111
Number of nodes : 3
Release         : 6.0
Last update     = Wed Oct 16 02:24:18 2019
Heterogeneous Cluster : False
Storage Type    : HDFS

Database: READY
Number of tables in READY state: 2185
Number of tables in OFFLINE state: 0
Number of tables in INPROGRESS state: 0
Number of tables in STALE state: 0
Number of tables in ERROR state: 0

Search Engine: READY
Has pending tables. Pending time = 1601679ms
Number of tables in KNOWN_TABLES state: 1934
Number of tables in READY state: 1928
Number of tables in WILL_REMOVE state: 0
Number of tables in BUILDING_AND_NOT_SERVING state: 0
Number of tables in BUILDING_AND_SERVING state: 128
Number of tables in WILL_NOT_INDEX state: 0
----

Ensure that the cluster is `RUNNING` and that the Database and Search Engine are `READY`.

Your output may look something like the following listing.
Ensure that all diagnostics show `SUCCESS`.

CAUTION: If `tscli cluster check` returns an error, it may suggest you run `tscli storage gc` to resolve the issue.
If you run `tscli storage gc`, note that it restarts your cluster.

[source,bash]
----
$ tscli cluster check
 Connecting to hosts...
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] START Diagnosing ssh
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] START Diagnosing connection
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] START Diagnosing zookeeper
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:47 2020] START Diagnosing sage
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] START Diagnosing timezone
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] START Diagnosing disk
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] START Diagnosing cassandra
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:15:48 2020] START Diagnosing hdfs
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:02 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:02 2020] START Diagnosing orion-oreo
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:02 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:02 2020] START Diagnosing memcheck
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:02 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:02 2020] START Diagnosing ntp
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:08 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:08 2020] START Diagnosing trace_vault
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:09 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:09 2020] START Diagnosing postgres
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:11 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:11 2020] START Diagnosing disk-health
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:11 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:11 2020] START Diagnosing falcon
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:12 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:12 2020] START Diagnosing orion-cgroups
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:12 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:12 2020] START Diagnosing callosum
 /usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages/urllib3/connectionpool.py:852: InsecureRequestWarning: Unverified HTTPS request is being made. Adding certificate verification is strongly advised. See: https://urllib3.readthedocs.io/en/latest/advanced-usage.html#ssl-warnings
   InsecureRequestWarning)
 [Wed Jan  8 23:16:12 2020] SUCCESS
 ################################################################################
----

[#install-step-3]
== Step 3. Finalize Installation

After the cluster status changes to "`Ready,`" sign in to the ThoughtSpot application on your browser.

Follow these steps:

. Start a browser from your computer.
. Enter your secure IP information on the address line.
+
[source,bash]
----
 https://<IP-address>
----

. If you don't have a security certificate for ThoughtSpot, you must bypass the security warning to proceed:
 ** Click *Advanced*
 ** Click *Proceed*
. The ThoughtSpot sign-in page appears.
. In the xref:smc-cluster-install.adoc#ts-login[ThoughtSpot sign-in window], enter admin credentials, and click *Sign in*.
If you do not know the admin credentials, ask your network administrator.
ThoughtSpot recommends changing the default admin password.
+
[#ts-login]
image:ts-login-page.png[ThoughtSpot's sign-in window]

== Lean configuration

*For use with thin provisioning only:* If you have a xref:deploying-cloud.adoc#small-medium[small or medium instance type], with less than 100GB of data, you must use advanced lean configuration before loading any data into ThoughtSpot.
After installing the cluster, contact xref:support-contact.adoc[ThoughtSpot Support] for assistance with this configuration.

== Error recovery

[#set-config-error-recovery]
=== `Set-config` error recovery

If you get a warning about node detection when you run the `set-config` command, restart the node-scout service.

Your error may look something like the following:

[source,bash]
----
Connecting to local node-scout WARNING: Detected 0 nodes, but found configuration for only 1 nodes.
Continuing anyway. Error in cluster config validation: [] is not a valid link-local IPv6 address for node: 0e:86:e2:23:8f:76 Configuration failed.
Please retry or contact support.
----

Restart the node-scout service with the following command.

[source,bash]
----
 $ sudo systemctl restart node-scout
----

Ensure that you restarted the node-scout by running `sudo systemctl status node-scout`.
Your output should specify that the node-scout service is active.
It may look something like the following:

[source,bash]
----
$ sudo systemctl status node-scout
   ● node-scout.service - Setup Node Scout service
     Loaded: loaded (/etc/systemd/system/node-scout.service; enabled; vendor preset: disabled)
     Active: active (running) since Fri 2019-12-06 13:56:29 PST; 4s ago
----

Next, retry the set-config command.

[source,bash]
----
$ cat nodes.config | tscli cluster set-config
----

The command output should no longer have a warning.
