software/modules/ROOT/pages/system-pinboards.adoc, before:

= System pinboards
:last_updated: 02/11/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:
:redirect_from: /admin/system-monitor/monitor-pinboards.html

ThoughtSpot provides several pinboards that help with system monitoring.

There are several system monitoring pinboards in ThoughtSpot that provide answers for system status and resource usage questions.
The information in these pinboards are updated hourly from internal data sources that collect monitoring statistics.

image::resource_usage_pinboard.png[]

Only users with administrative privilege can view the monitoring pinboards.
They are based on worksheets, which administrators can view, but not modify.
However, you can create new monitoring pinboards from the worksheets.

== View system pinboards

To view these system pinboards:

. Go to the *Pinboards* tab.
. Choose *All*.
. Search for the Pinboard you would like to view.
You can view the *System Cluster Pinboard*, the *System Alert Pinboard*, and the *User Adoption Pinboard* from the Admin Console.

== Summary of system pinboards

Learn how to use ThoughtSpot::
  Contains search replays created in the system.

TS Stats: Alert Detail::
  Combines alerts, notification events, and configuration events boards.

TS Stats: Cluster Detail::
  Contains cluster details, logs, snapshots, and latency data.

TS Stats: System Information and Usage::
  Replicates the *Admin > System Health > Overview* page.

TS Stats: Latency Visualizations::
  Latency on servers and impression counts. This data comes from the TS: BI Server worksheet.

TS Stats: Table Status::
  Replicates the *Data* board.

User Adoption::
      Contains information on how your ThoughtSpot users are interacting with ThoughtSpot, and how your user adoption is changing over time. Refer to xref:admin-portal-user-adoption-pinboard.adoc[User Adoption Pinboard].

Performance Tracking::
  Contains information on how your ThoughtSpot cluster is performing. Refer to xref:performance-tracking.adoc[Performance Tracking Pinboard].

== About deprecated system pinboards

The deprecated system pinboards (`TS status: Usage - Deprecated` and `TS StaTS: Queries -- Deprecated`) are there to support older installations.

New installations should not use or rely on deprecated pinboards.

Older installations that use these pinboards should start using the new pinboards and remove any dependencies.

Commit message:

object usage pinboard article
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/ROOT/pages/system-pinboards.adoc, after:

= System pinboards
:last_updated: 08/20/2021
:linkattrs:
:experimental:
:redirect_from: /admin/system-monitor/monitor-pinboards.html

ThoughtSpot provides several pinboards that help with system monitoring.

There are several system monitoring pinboards in ThoughtSpot that provide answers for system status and resource usage questions.
The information in these pinboards are updated hourly from internal data sources that collect monitoring statistics.

image::resource_usage_pinboard.png[]

Only users with administrative privilege can view the monitoring pinboards.
They are based on worksheets, which administrators can view, but not modify.
However, you can create new monitoring pinboards from the worksheets.

== View system pinboards

To view these system pinboards:

. Go to the *Pinboards* tab.
. Choose *All*.
. Search for the Pinboard you would like to view.
You can view the *System Cluster Pinboard*, the *System Alert Pinboard*, and the *User Adoption Pinboard* from the Admin Console.

== Summary of system pinboards

Learn how to use ThoughtSpot::
  Contains search replays created in the system.

TS Stats: Alert Detail::
  Combines alerts, notification events, and configuration events boards.

TS Stats: Cluster Detail::
  Contains cluster details, logs, snapshots, and latency data.

TS Stats: System Information and Usage::
  Replicates the *Admin > System Health > Overview* page.

TS Stats: Latency Visualizations::
  Latency on servers and impression counts. This data comes from the TS: BI Server worksheet.

TS Stats: Table Status::
  Replicates the *Data* board.

User Adoption::
      Contains information on how your ThoughtSpot users are interacting with ThoughtSpot, and how your user adoption is changing over time. Refer to xref:admin-portal-user-adoption-pinboard.adoc[User Adoption Pinboard].

Object usage::
  	Contains information on how your ThoughtSpot users are interacting with ThoughtSpot objects such as worksheets, tables, and views. Refer to xref:object-usage-pinboard.adoc[Object Usage Pinboard].

Performance Tracking::
  Contains information on how your ThoughtSpot cluster is performing. Refer to xref:performance-tracking.adoc[Performance Tracking Pinboard].

== About deprecated system pinboards

The deprecated system pinboards (`TS status: Usage - Deprecated` and `TS StaTS: Queries -- Deprecated`) are there to support older installations.

New installations should not use or rely on deprecated pinboards.

Older installations that use these pinboards should start using the new pinboards and remove any dependencies.
