software/modules/ROOT/pages/user-profile.adoc, before:

= Your user profile
:last_updated: 12/19/2019
:experimental:
:linkattrs:
:page-partial:
:page-aliases: /end-user/introduction/about-user.adoc

The user icon lets you view your profile, adjust language options, specify notification preferences, revisit onboarding, or sign out of ThoughtSpot.

To view the user actions, click your user icon on the top right corner of the page.

image::user-info.png[Click User icon]

Click *Profile* to navigate to your profile, where you can change your icon, password, email, locale, and other  preferences.

Notice that you can now see the *My Profile* interface.

[#profile-picture]
== Change your profile picture

You can change your profile picture clicking the user profile in the top right of the interface, clicking *Upload Picture*, and selecting a new image from the file browser.

You can use any a `\*.png` or `*.jpg` file.
Image files cannot exceed 4MB.

image::user-upload-picture.png[Upload user profile image]

You can also make this change within the *User Profile*, under *Information*.

image::user-upload-picture-alternative.png[Upload user profile image]

[#email]
== Update your email

To change your email, navigate to *My Profile*.
Under *Information*, enter an alternate email, and click Add.

[#language]
== Change language and data format settings

include::partial$set_locale.adoc[]

[#notifications]
== Update sharing notification settings

Under *Preferences*, see the *Notifications* option.

Select *Email me sharing notifications* to receive emails whenever another user shares pinboards with you.

image::profile-email-notifications.png[]

[#onboarding]
== Revisit user onboarding

When you are relatively new to using ThoughtSpot, we help you to become productive faster.

Whenever you need a refresh, navigate to *My Profile*.
Under *Preferences*, see the *New user onboarding* option.
Click *Revisit*, and ThoughtSpot guides you through onboarding again.

[#password]
== Change password

When you need to change your password, navigate to *My Profile*, and under *Preferences* enter the following information:

* Current Password
* New Password
* Confirm Password

By default, any password for a local user account must meet the following criteria. Passwords for SSO users do *NOT* need to meet these criteria. SSO users do not see the option to change their password.

- The password must be 8 characters or more in length.
- The password must include at least 1 uppercase letter, 1 lowercase letter, 1 number, and 1 special character.
- The password must pass a complexity test based on an external library. This test ensures password complexity and uniqueness by checking for known patterns or words that are too simple. If the password is not complex enough, ThoughtSpot rejects it, even if it fulfills the other 2 criteria. Refer to the https://github.com/dropbox/zxcvbn[Dropbox password library^] for more information.

Click *Update*.

[#sign-out]
== Signing out

To sign out of your ThoughtSpot account, click the user profile in the top right of the interface, and choose *Sign out*.

Commit message:

SCAL-97485 password requirements 7.1
Signed-off-by: Teresa Killmond <teresa.killmond@thoughtspot.com>

software/modules/ROOT/pages/user-profile.adoc, after:

= Your user profile
:last_updated: 12/19/2019
:experimental:
:linkattrs:
:page-partial:
:page-aliases: /end-user/introduction/about-user.adoc

The user icon lets you view your profile, adjust language options, specify notification preferences, revisit onboarding, or sign out of ThoughtSpot.

To view the user actions, click your user icon on the top right corner of the page.

image::user-info.png[Click User icon]

Click *Profile* to navigate to your profile, where you can change your icon, password, email, locale, and other  preferences.

Notice that you can now see the *My Profile* interface.

[#profile-picture]
== Change your profile picture

You can change your profile picture clicking the user profile in the top right of the interface, clicking *Upload Picture*, and selecting a new image from the file browser.

You can use any a `\*.png` or `*.jpg` file.
Image files cannot exceed 4MB.

image::user-upload-picture.png[Upload user profile image]

You can also make this change within the *User Profile*, under *Information*.

image::user-upload-picture-alternative.png[Upload user profile image]

[#email]
== Update your email

To change your email, navigate to *My Profile*.
Under *Information*, enter an alternate email, and click Add.

[#language]
== Change language and data format settings

include::partial$set_locale.adoc[]

[#notifications]
== Update sharing notification settings

Under *Preferences*, see the *Notifications* option.

Select *Email me sharing notifications* to receive emails whenever another user shares pinboards with you.

image::profile-email-notifications.png[]

[#onboarding]
== Revisit user onboarding

When you are relatively new to using ThoughtSpot, we help you to become productive faster.

Whenever you need a refresh, navigate to *My Profile*.
Under *Preferences*, see the *New user onboarding* option.
Click *Revisit*, and ThoughtSpot guides you through onboarding again.

[#password]
== Change password

When you need to change your password, navigate to *My Profile*, and under *Preferences* enter the following information:

* Current Password
* New Password
* Confirm Password

By default, any password for a local user account must meet the following criteria. Passwords for SSO users do *NOT* need to meet these criteria. SSO users do not see the option to change their password.

- The password must be 8 characters or more in length.
- The password must include at least 1 uppercase letter, 1 lowercase letter, 1 number, and 1 special character.
- The password must pass a complexity test based on an external library. This test ensures password complexity and uniqueness by checking for known patterns or words that are too simple. If the password is not complex enough, ThoughtSpot rejects it, even if it fulfills the other requirements. Refer to the https://github.com/dropbox/zxcvbn[Dropbox password library^] for more information.
- The password cannot use certain blocked words. By default, the blocked words are: your username, any part of your display name, and any blocked words your company configures. To add additional words to the blocklist, xref:support-contact.adoc[contact ThoughtSpot Support].

Click *Update*.

[#sign-out]
== Signing out

To sign out of your ThoughtSpot account, click the user profile in the top right of the interface, and choose *Sign out*.
