cloud/modules/ROOT/pages/admin/users-groups/about-users-groups.adoc, before:

= ["Understand groups and privileges"]
:last_updated: 11/05/2021
:permalink: /:collection/:path.html
:sidebar: mydoc_sidebar
:summary: Creating groups and assigning users to them makes privilege management easier.

{% include content/liveboards-announcement.md %}

Before people can log in and use ThoughtSpot, you need to create a username, a password, and a membership in one or more groups for them.

This page describes manual creation of users, groups, and privileges, but you can also manage users through SAML.

== Privileges and groups

Privileges determine what kinds of actions users are allowed to do.
You assign privileges to groups.
Then, you create users and assign them to groups.
This is how you grant users access to different capabilities in ThoughtSpot.

Each group includes a set of privileges for its users.
The privileges a group has determine the actions that its members are allowed to do.
If a user belongs to more than one group, they will have the highest level of the privileges from all the groups they belong to.
Plan your groups so that you can use them to assign a common set of privileges to multiple users.
Good planning will pay off in ease of administration and a better search experience.

There is a default group called *All*, which includes every user in ThoughtSpot.
When you create a new user, they will be added to the *All* group automatically.
You cannot delete the *All* group or remove members from it.

You can also have a hierarchy of groups.
That is, groups can belong to (that is, be children of) other groups.
When using group hierarchies, permissions are inherited from the parent group.
So if you're a member of a sub-group, you would automatically have the privileges of the parent group.

== List of privileges

Here are the different privileges, and the capabilities they enable:

{% include content/privileges.md %}

Privileges are additive, meaning that if a user belongs to more than one group, they will have the highest level of privileges from among the groups they are a member of.
They are also inherited from the parent, so that a sub-group gets all the same privileges of its parent, all the way up the group hierarchy.

If you add the privilege *Has administration privileges* to a group, note that all users in that group will be able to see all the data in ThoughtSpot.
Administrators can see all data sources, and link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/data-security/about-row-security.html#[Row level security] does not apply to them.

Permissions to see and edit tables, worksheets, and Liveboards are set when you share them with users and groups, as described in the topic link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/data-security/sharing-security-overview.html#[Data security].

The following table shows the intersection of user privilege and ability: {% include content/security-matrix.md %}

== Related information

* link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/users-groups/add-group.html[Add a group and set security privileges]
* link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/users-groups/add-user.html[Add a user]

Commit message:

admin data security
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

cloud/modules/ROOT/pages/admin/users-groups/about-users-groups.adoc, after:

= ["Understand groups and privileges"]
:last_updated: 11/05/2021
:permalink: /:collection/:path.html
:sidebar: mydoc_sidebar
:summary: Creating groups and assigning users to them makes privilege management easier.

{% include content/liveboards-announcement.md %}

Before people can log in and use ThoughtSpot, you need to create a username, a password, and a membership in one or more groups for them.

This page describes manual creation of users, groups, and privileges, but you can also manage users through SAML.

== Privileges and groups

Privileges determine what kinds of actions users are allowed to do.
You assign privileges to groups.
Then, you create users and assign them to groups.
This is how you grant users access to different capabilities in ThoughtSpot.

Each group includes a set of privileges for its users.
The privileges a group has determine the actions that its members are allowed to do.
If a user belongs to more than one group, they will have the highest level of the privileges from all the groups they belong to.
Plan your groups so that you can use them to assign a common set of privileges to multiple users.
Good planning will pay off in ease of administration and a better search experience.

There is a default group called *All*, which includes every user in ThoughtSpot.
When you create a new user, they will be added to the *All* group automatically.
You cannot delete the *All* group or remove members from it.

You can also have a hierarchy of groups.
That is, groups can belong to (that is, be children of) other groups.
When using group hierarchies, permissions are inherited from the parent group.
So if you're a member of a sub-group, you would automatically have the privileges of the parent group.

== List of privileges

Here are the different privileges, and the capabilities they enable:

{% include content/privileges.md %}

Privileges are additive, meaning that if a user belongs to more than one group, they will have the highest level of privileges from among the groups they are a member of.
They are also inherited from the parent, so that a sub-group gets all the same privileges of its parent, all the way up the group hierarchy.

If you add the privilege *Has administration privileges* to a group, note that all users in that group will be able to see all the data in ThoughtSpot.
Administrators can see all data sources, and xref:security-rls.adoc#[Row level security] does not apply to them.

Permissions to see and edit tables, worksheets, and Liveboards are set when you share them with users and groups, as described in the topic xref:data-security.adoc#[Data security].

The following table shows the intersection of user privilege and ability: {% include content/security-matrix.md %}

== Related information

* link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/users-groups/add-group.html[Add a group and set security privileges]
* link:{{ site.baseurl }}/admin/users-groups/add-user.html[Add a user]
