cloud/modules/ROOT/pages/end-user/search/about-sankey-charts.adoc, before:

'''

title: [Sankey charts]

last_updated: 2/24/2021 summary: "The Sankey chart is a type of chart that contains both columns and a special type of line chart.
" sidebar: mydoc_sidebar permalink: /:collection/:path.html --

Sankey diagrams illustrate a flow through a process or system.
Transactional data is optimal for this type of diagram.
For example, financial transactions that take place as money moves through accounts or as a product is process.
Many marketing users are familiar with Sankey charts from using Google Analytics to view sales conversions.

When you build a Sankey chart you need to provide at least 2 (two) attributes and one measure.
Your x-axis attributes can contain at most 13 values, any more and you cannot view a SanKey chart.
ThoughtSpot Sankey charts are read from left to right.
The width of the flow represents the measure, the attributes or "steps" appear as solid bars:

image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/sankey.png[]

The link:{{ site.baseurl }}/downloads/Austin_Animal_Center_Outcomes.csv[Austin Animal Center Outcomes] data shows the outcome of processing for different breeds of animal.
The measure is the count of total animals.
Looking at how an animal was classified when they entered the system, this chart shows the outcome processing that took the animal out of the system.

By clicking on a flow, you can see the total animals in any flow.
Many domestic short haired cats (over 10k) were transferred to other agencies.
While all bats that came into the system were euthanized.
There were a surprising number of bats processed.

Commit message:

enduser/search a - c
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

cloud/modules/ROOT/pages/end-user/search/about-sankey-charts.adoc, after:

= Sankey charts
:linkattrs:
:experimental:
:page-aliases: /end-user/search/about-sankey-charts.adoc
:last_updated: 2/24/2021
:description: The Sankey chart is a type of chart that contains both columns and a special type of line chart.

Sankey diagrams illustrate a flow through a process or system.
Transactional data is optimal for this type of diagram.
For example, financial transactions that take place as money moves through accounts or as a product is process.
Many marketing users are familiar with Sankey charts from using Google Analytics to view sales conversions.

When you build a Sankey chart you need to provide at least 2 (two) attributes and one measure.
Your x-axis attributes can contain at most 13 values, any more and you cannot view a SanKey chart.
ThoughtSpot Sankey charts are read from left to right.
The width of the flow represents the measure, the attributes or "steps" appear as solid bars:

image::sankey.png[]

The link:{{ site.baseurl }}/downloads/Austin_Animal_Center_Outcomes.csv[Austin Animal Center Outcomes] data shows the outcome of processing for different breeds of animal.
The measure is the count of total animals.
Looking at how an animal was classified when they entered the system, this chart shows the outcome processing that took the animal out of the system.

By clicking on a flow, you can see the total animals in any flow.
Many domestic short haired cats (over 10k) were transferred to other agencies.
While all bats that came into the system were euthanized.
There were a surprising number of bats processed.
