cloud/modules/ROOT/pages/end-user/search/about-radar-charts.adoc, before:

'''

title: [Radar charts;
spiderweb charts]

last_updated: 3/9/2020 summary: "The Radar (or spiderweb) chart contains both columns and a special type of line chart.
" sidebar: mydoc_sidebar permalink: /:collection/:path.html -- A Radar chart, also called a Spiderweb chart, displays data in the form of a two-dimensional chart of three or more qualities, represented on axes starting from the same point.
This is a good chart to use when you have asked users to rank an experience or product.
You can use a spiderweb chart to examine the relative values for a single data point.
You can also use it to locate outliers.

When you build a Radar chart you must provide at least one attribute and one measure.
The measure values move from smallest to the outer edge of the web.
Each spoke of the web is reserved for one of the variables.
The points where each value lies on the web are connected.

image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/chartconfig-spiderweb.png[Radar chart example]

You may notice that sales of both *gifts* and *medical* items might be outliers.
Gift and medical sales are minimal compared to the average.

Commit message:

enduser/search a - c
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

cloud/modules/ROOT/pages/end-user/search/about-radar-charts.adoc, after:

= Radar charts;
spiderweb charts
:linkattrs:
:experimental:
:page-aliases: /end-user/search/about-radar-charts.adoc
:last_updated: 3/9/2020
:description: The Radar (or spiderweb) chart contains both columns and a special type of line chart.


A Radar chart, also called a Spiderweb chart, displays data in the form of a two-dimensional chart of three or more qualities, represented on axes starting from the same point.
This is a good chart to use when you have asked users to rank an experience or product.
You can use a spiderweb chart to examine the relative values for a single data point.
You can also use it to locate outliers.

When you build a Radar chart you must provide at least one attribute and one measure.
The measure values move from smallest to the outer edge of the web.
Each spoke of the web is reserved for one of the variables.
The points where each value lies on the web are connected.

image::chartconfig-spiderweb.png[Radar chart example]

You may notice that sales of both *gifts* and *medical* items might be outliers.
Gift and medical sales are minimal compared to the average.
