cloud/modules/ROOT/pages/end-user/search/set-the-y-axis-scale.adoc, before:

'''

title: [Set the y-axis range]

last_updated: 2/25/2020 summary: "On charts, you can manually configure the y-axis range to be different from the search default.
You can have multiple measures on the y-axis of many charts." sidebar: mydoc_sidebar permalink: /:collection/:path.html -- You can manually set the y-axis range by clicking *edit* from the <<y-axis,y-axis label drop-down>>, or from the <<chart-config-edit,*chart configuration* menu>>.

[#y-axis]
== Setting the y-axis range from the axis label

To set the y-axis range:

. While viewing your answer as a chart, click the dropdown menu icon image:{{ site.baseurl }}/images/icon-caret-right-20px.png[] next to the y-axis label you want to change.
. Click *edit*.
+
image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/chartconfig-edityaxis.png[Click edit]

. Under *Min* and *Max*, set the y-axis range by specifying start and end values.
+
In this example, the original chart shows *sales* values by *department*  from 0 to over $5M.
We can enter a y-axis range of `2500000` to `5000000` to  show only sales between $2.5M and $5M.
+
The chart reorganizes itself to reflect the new y-axis range.
+
To change the range for *gross profit margin*, click the dropdown menu icon next to the *gross profit margin* axis label.

image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/chart-config-axis-range.gif[Change the axis range gif]

[#chart-config-edit]
== Setting the y-axis range from the chart configuration menu

To set the y-axis range:

. While viewing your answer as a chart, click the *chart configuration* icon image:{{ site.baseurl }}/images/icon-gear-10px.png[] on the top right.
. Click the *edit* button image:{{ site.baseurl }}/images/icon-edit-20px.png[] that appears when you hover over *y-axis*.
. If you have multiple measures on the y-axis, select the measure you want to set the range for.
. Under *Min* and *Max*, set the y-axis range by specifying start and end values.
+
In this example, the original chart shows *sales* values by *department*  from 0 to over $5M.
We can enter a y-axis range of `2500000` to `5000000` to  show only sales between $2.5M and $5M.
+
The chart reorganizes itself to reflect the new y-axis range.

image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/chart-config-y-axis.gif[Change the axis range gif]

== Create charts with multiple measures on the y-axis

You can have multiple measures on the y-axis of most (but not all) chart types.
You can configure this in the *chart configuration* panel, by dragging and dropping measures out of the *not visualized* section.
To learn more, see these topics:

* link:{{ site.baseurl }}/end-user/search/drag-and-drop.html[Customize columns for the X and Y axes]
* link:{{ site.baseurl }}/end-user/search/about-charts.html#charts-with-multiple-measures-on-the-y-axis[Charts with multiple measures on the y-axis]

Commit message:

end-user/search fix
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

cloud/modules/ROOT/pages/end-user/search/set-the-y-axis-scale.adoc, after:

= Set the y-axis range
:last_updated: 2/25/2020
:linkattrs:
:experimental:
:page-aliases: /end-user/search/set-the-y-axis-scale.adoc
:summary: "On charts, you can manually configure the y-axis range to be different from the search default. You can have multiple measures on the y-axis of many charts."

You can manually set the y-axis range by clicking *edit* from the <<y-axis,y-axis label drop-down>>, or from the <<chart-config-edit,*chart configuration* menu>>.

[#y-axis]
== Setting the y-axis range from the axis label

To set the y-axis range:

. While viewing your answer as a chart, click the dropdown menu icon image:{{ site.baseurl }}/images/icon-caret-right-20px.png[] next to the y-axis label you want to change.
. Click *edit*.
+
image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/chartconfig-edityaxis.png[Click edit]

. Under *Min* and *Max*, set the y-axis range by specifying start and end values.
+
In this example, the original chart shows *sales* values by *department*  from 0 to over $5M.
We can enter a y-axis range of `2500000` to `5000000` to  show only sales between $2.5M and $5M.
+
The chart reorganizes itself to reflect the new y-axis range.
+
To change the range for *gross profit margin*, click the dropdown menu icon next to the *gross profit margin* axis label.

image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/chart-config-axis-range.gif[Change the axis range gif]

[#chart-config-edit]
== Setting the y-axis range from the chart configuration menu

To set the y-axis range:

. While viewing your answer as a chart, click the *chart configuration* icon image:{{ site.baseurl }}/images/icon-gear-10px.png[] on the top right.
. Click the *edit* button image:{{ site.baseurl }}/images/icon-edit-20px.png[] that appears when you hover over *y-axis*.
. If you have multiple measures on the y-axis, select the measure you want to set the range for.
. Under *Min* and *Max*, set the y-axis range by specifying start and end values.
+
In this example, the original chart shows *sales* values by *department*  from 0 to over $5M.
We can enter a y-axis range of `2500000` to `5000000` to  show only sales between $2.5M and $5M.
+
The chart reorganizes itself to reflect the new y-axis range.

image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/chart-config-y-axis.gif[Change the axis range gif]

== Create charts with multiple measures on the y-axis

You can have multiple measures on the y-axis of most (but not all) chart types.
You can configure this in the *chart configuration* panel, by dragging and dropping measures out of the *not visualized* section.
To learn more, see these topics:

* link:{{ site.baseurl }}/end-user/search/drag-and-drop.html[Customize columns for the X and Y axes]
* link:{{ site.baseurl }}/end-user/search/about-charts.html#charts-with-multiple-measures-on-the-y-axis[Charts with multiple measures on the y-axis]
