cloud/modules/ROOT/partials/keywords-general.adoc, before:

+++<table>++++++<colgroup>++++++<col style="width:5%">++++++</col>+++
      +++<col style="width:75%">++++++</col>++++++</colgroup>+++
   +++<thead class="thead" style="text-align:left;">++++++<tr>++++++<th>+++Keyword+++</th>+++
         +++<th>+++Examples+++</th>++++++</tr>++++++</thead>+++
   +++<tbody class="tbody">++++++<tr>++++++<td>+++top +++<i>+++n+++</i>++++++</td>+++
         +++<td>++++++<ul>++++++<li>++++++<code>++++++<b>+++top 10+++</b>+++ sales rep revenue+++</code>++++++</li>+++
          +++<li>++++++<code>++++++<b>+++top+++</b>+++ sales rep by count sales for average revenue > 10000+++</code>++++++</li>+++
          +++<li>++++++<code>+++sales rep average revenue for each region +++<b>+++top+++</b>+++ +++</code>++++++</li>++++++</ul>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
      +++<tr>++++++<td>+++bottom +++<i>+++n+++</i>++++++</td>+++
         +++<td>++++++<ul>++++++<li>++++++<code>++++++<b>+++bottom 25+++</b>+++ customer by revenue for each sales rep+++</code>++++++</li>+++
            +++<li>++++++<code>++++++<b>+++bottom+++</b>+++ revenue average+++</code>++++++</li>+++
            +++<li>++++++<code>++++++<b>+++bottom+++</b>+++ revenue by state+++</code>++++++</li>+++
            +++<li>++++++<code>+++customer by revenue for each sales rep +++<b>+++bottom+++</b>++++++</code>++++++</li>++++++</ul>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
      +++<tr>++++++<td>+++sort by+++</td>+++
         +++<td>++++++<ul>++++++<li>++++++<code>+++revenue by state +++<b>+++sort by+++</b>+++ average revenue+++</code>++++++</li>+++
            +++<li>++++++<code>+++revenue by customer +++<b>+++sort by+++</b>+++ region+++</code>++++++</li>++++++</ul>++++++</td>++++++</tr>++++++</tbody>++++++</table>+++

NOTE: When using the *top* or *bottom* keywords without specifying a number (*_n_*), the number defaults to 10.

Commit message:

keywords-general
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

cloud/modules/ROOT/partials/keywords-general.adoc, after:

NOTE: When using the *top* or *bottom* keywords without specifying a number (*_n_*), the number defaults to 10.

include::partial$keywords/list-general.adoc[]

////
+++<table>++++++<colgroup>++++++<col style="width:5%">++++++</col>+++
      +++<col style="width:75%">++++++</col>++++++</colgroup>+++
   +++<thead class="thead" style="text-align:left;">++++++<tr>++++++<th>+++Keyword+++</th>+++
         +++<th>+++Examples+++</th>++++++</tr>++++++</thead>+++
   +++<tbody class="tbody">++++++<tr>++++++<td>+++top +++<i>+++n+++</i>++++++</td>+++
         +++<td>++++++<ul>++++++<li>++++++<code>++++++<b>+++top 10+++</b>+++ sales rep revenue+++</code>++++++</li>+++
          +++<li>++++++<code>++++++<b>+++top+++</b>+++ sales rep by count sales for average revenue > 10000+++</code>++++++</li>+++
          +++<li>++++++<code>+++sales rep average revenue for each region +++<b>+++top+++</b>+++ +++</code>++++++</li>++++++</ul>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
      +++<tr>++++++<td>+++bottom +++<i>+++n+++</i>++++++</td>+++
         +++<td>++++++<ul>++++++<li>++++++<code>++++++<b>+++bottom 25+++</b>+++ customer by revenue for each sales rep+++</code>++++++</li>+++
            +++<li>++++++<code>++++++<b>+++bottom+++</b>+++ revenue average+++</code>++++++</li>+++
            +++<li>++++++<code>++++++<b>+++bottom+++</b>+++ revenue by state+++</code>++++++</li>+++
            +++<li>++++++<code>+++customer by revenue for each sales rep +++<b>+++bottom+++</b>++++++</code>++++++</li>++++++</ul>++++++</td>++++++</tr>+++
      +++<tr>++++++<td>+++sort by+++</td>+++
         +++<td>++++++<ul>++++++<li>++++++<code>+++revenue by state +++<b>+++sort by+++</b>+++ average revenue+++</code>++++++</li>+++
            +++<li>++++++<code>+++revenue by customer +++<b>+++sort by+++</b>+++ region+++</code>++++++</li>++++++</ul>++++++</td>++++++</tr>++++++</tbody>++++++</table>+++
////
