cloud/modules/ROOT/pages/complex-search/show-underlying-data.adoc, before:

'''

title: [Show underlying data]

last_updated: tbd summary: "Viewing the underlying data of your answer gives you an un-aggregated view of the underlying data." sidebar: mydoc_sidebar permalink: /:collection/:path.html -- You can see the most granular details of a given result set, i.e.
it shows the un-aggregated view.
This feature lets you understand what an answer consists of.
For example, if you search for `customer region revenue`, the answer shows the aggregate revenue value for each customer region.
Then, you can right-click any row and then click *Show underlying data*, to see each value which constitutes `revenue` for any given region.

Only the first 1,000 rows appear when viewing the underlying data.
You can even download the results shown when you choose *Show underlying data* from a chart.
The download file limit is a million rows.

{% include note.html content="Viewing underlying data does not work for answers that are derived from chasm trap searches.
Nor does this feature work for pivot tables." %}

To show underlying data:

. Right-click the visualization or table cell of interest
. Select *Show underlying data*.
+
image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/show_underlying_data.png[]
+
A new window opens that displays a summary and the underlying data.

. Optionally, choose to *+ ADD COLUMNS* to add additional data.
+
image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/add_columns_underlying_data.png[]

. Click *CONFIRM CHANGES*.
. Click *DOWNLOAD* to download a CSV file of the data.
+
image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/showing_underlying_data.png[]

Commit message:

complex search
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

cloud/modules/ROOT/pages/complex-search/show-underlying-data.adoc, after:

= Show underlying data
:last_updated: tbd
:linkattrs:
:experimental:
:page-aliases: /complex-search/show-underlying-data.adoc
:summary: "Viewing the underlying data of your answer gives you an un-aggregated view of the underlying data."


You can see the most granular details of a given result set, i.e.
it shows the un-aggregated view.
This feature lets you understand what an answer consists of.
For example, if you search for `customer region revenue`, the answer shows the aggregate revenue value for each customer region.
Then, you can right-click any row and then click *Show underlying data*, to see each value which constitutes `revenue` for any given region.

Only the first 1,000 rows appear when viewing the underlying data.
You can even download the results shown when you choose *Show underlying data* from a chart.
The download file limit is a million rows.

{% include note.html content="Viewing underlying data does not work for answers that are derived from chasm trap searches.
Nor does this feature work for pivot tables." %}

To show underlying data:

. Right-click the visualization or table cell of interest
. Select *Show underlying data*.
+
image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/show_underlying_data.png[]
+
A new window opens that displays a summary and the underlying data.

. Optionally, choose to *+ ADD COLUMNS* to add additional data.
+
image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/add_columns_underlying_data.png[]

. Click *CONFIRM CHANGES*.
. Click *DOWNLOAD* to download a CSV file of the data.
+
image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/showing_underlying_data.png[]
