software/modules/docs/partials/authentication-active-directory.adoc, before:

Navigate to the Admin Console by clicking on the *Admin* tab from the top navigation bar.
Select *Active Directory* from the side navigation bar that appears.

image::admin-portal-active-directory.png[Admin Console - Active Directory]

Click the *Configure* button in the middle of the screen, and add your information based on the information you collected in the <<prerequisites,prerequisites>>.

NOTE: If you configure authentication through Active Directory, you cannot also configure authentication through SAML.

image::admin-portal-active-directory-configure.png[Configure Active Directory]

If you select *yes* for *SSL required*, ThoughtSpot prompts you to enter the SSL <<ssl,certificate>> and certificate alias.
The certificate alias is a unique name you make up for your SSL certificate, in string format.
If you replace the SSL certificate, you need a new certificate alias.

image::admin-portal-active-directory-ssl.png[SSL required - yes]

After you add all your information, click *OK*.

NOTE: ThoughtSpot adds external users, or users that authenticate through SAML or Active Directory, to the *all* group by default. This group has no privileges. You must manually assign users to ThoughtSpot groups to give them privileges, such as *can upload user data*, or *can manage data*.

== Additional resources

As you develop your expertise in authentication and security, we recommend the following ThoughtSpot U course:

* https://training.thoughtspot.com/authentication-security/621451[Active Directory, window=_blank]

See other training resources at +
[#thoughtspot-u]
[link=https://training.thoughtspot.com/]
image::ts-u.png[ThoughtSpot U]

Commit message:

SCAL-79999 (1) updated all *Related information* to standard callout (no longer an H2), (2) updated all references to ThoughtSpot U with course link and top-level reference, in a standard callout, at top of article or section, (3) updated check off lists to new format in many afticles, (4) deleted tsl-answer and tsl-pinboard articles, as these were redundant
Signed-off-by: Roza Leyderman <roza.leyderman@thoughtspot.com>

software/modules/docs/partials/authentication-active-directory.adoc, after:

'''
> **ThoughtSpot Training**
>
> * For best results, we recommend that you take the following ThoughtSpot U course: * https://training.thoughtspot.com/authentication-security/621451[Active Directory^]
.
> * See other training resources at https://training.thoughtspot.com/[ThoughtSpot U^].

'''

Navigate to the Admin Console by clicking on the *Admin* tab from the top navigation bar.
Select *Active Directory* from the side navigation bar that appears.

image::admin-portal-active-directory.png[Admin Console - Active Directory]

Click the *Configure* button in the middle of the screen, and add your information based on the information you collected in the <<prerequisites,prerequisites>>.

NOTE: If you configure authentication through Active Directory, you cannot also configure authentication through SAML.

image::admin-portal-active-directory-configure.png[Configure Active Directory]

If you select *yes* for *SSL required*, ThoughtSpot prompts you to enter the SSL <<ssl,certificate>> and certificate alias.
The certificate alias is a unique name you make up for your SSL certificate, in string format.
If you replace the SSL certificate, you need a new certificate alias.

image::admin-portal-active-directory-ssl.png[SSL required - yes]

After you add all your information, click *OK*.

NOTE: ThoughtSpot adds external users, or users that authenticate through SAML or Active Directory, to the *all* group by default. This group has no privileges. You must manually assign users to ThoughtSpot groups to give them privileges, such as *can upload user data*, or *can manage data*.
