software/modules/docs/partials/configure-nodes-steps1through5.adoc, before:

[#node-step-1]
=== Step 1: Log in to your cluster

Log in to your cluster with admin credentials from Terminal on a Mac or a terminal emulator on Windows.
Ask your network administrator if you do not know the admin credentials.

. Run `ssh admin@<nodeIP>`.
+ Replace `nodeIP` with your specific network information.

 $ ssh admin@<nodeIP>

. Enter your admin password at the prompt.
+ Ask your network administrator if you don't know the password.

NOTE: The password does not appear on the screen as you type it.

[#node-step-2]
=== Step 2: Get a template for network configuration

Run the `tscli cluster get-config` command to get a template for network configuration for the new cluster.
Redirect it to the file `nodes.config`.
+ You can find more information on this process in the xref:nodesconfig-example.adoc[`nodes.config` file reference].

 $ tscli cluster get-config |& tee nodes.config

[#node-step-3]
=== Step 3: Prepare node configuration

WARNING: _DNS server_ and _IP address_ values must be set in the cloud backend. It then populates them into the VM configuration. If you specify different values during this step, it can create a temporary mismatch and lead to connectivity issues.

. Add your specific network information for the nodes in the `nodes.config` file, as demonstrated in the xref:nodesconfig-example.adoc#autodiscovery-of-one-node-example[autodiscovery of one node example].
Run `vim nodes.config` to edit the file.
+
----
 $ vim nodes.config
----
+
NOTE: Some of the information in the `nodes.config` file may be pre-populated from earlier steps.
For example, if you specified an IP address while creating VMs, that IP address might already be present in your `nodes.config` file.

. Fill in the areas specified in xref:parameters-nodesconfig.adoc[Parameters of the nodes.config file] with your specific network information.
+ If you have additional nodes, complete each node within the nodes.config file in the same way.

Do not edit any part of the `nodes.config` file except the sections described in xref:parameters-nodesconfig.adoc[Parameters of the nodes.config file].
If you delete quotation marks, commas, or other parts of the code, it may cause setup to fail.

[#node-step-4]
=== Step 4: Configure the nodes

Configure the nodes in the `nodes.config` file using the `set-config` command.

. Disable the `firewalld` service by running `sudo systemctl stop firewalld` in your terminal.
The `firewalld` service is a Linux firewall that must be off for ThoughtSpot installation.
After the cluster installer reboots the nodes, `firewalld` automatically turns back on.
+
----
 $ sudo systemctl stop firewalld
----

. To make sure you temporarily disabled `firewalld`, run `sudo systemctl status firewalld`.
Your output should specify that `firewalld` is inactive.
It may look something like the following:
+
----
 $ sudo systemctl status firewalld
   ● firewalld.service - firewalld - dynamic firewall daemon
     Loaded: loaded (/usr/lib/systemd/system/firewalld.service; disabled; vendor preset: enabled)
     Active: inactive (dead)
----

. Run the configuration command: `$ cat nodes.config | tscli cluster set-config`.
+ If the command returns an error, refer to xref:set-config-error-recovery[set-config error recovery].
+  After you run the node configuration command, your output appears similar to the following:
+
----
 $ cat nodes.config | tscli cluster set-config

 Connecting to local node-scout
 Setting up hostnames for all nodes
 Setting up networking interfaces on all nodes
 Setting up hosts file on all nodes
 Setting up NTP Servers
 Setting up Timezone
 Done setting up ThoughtSpot
----

[#node-step-5]
=== Step 5: Confirm node configuration

Use the `get-config` command to confirm node configuration.
+ Your output may look similar to the following:

[source,console]
----
$ tscli cluster get-config

{
  "ClusterId": "",
  "ClusterName": "",
  "DataNetmask": "255.255.252.0",
  "DataGateway": "192.168.4.1",
  "IPMINetmask": "255.255.252.0",
  "IPMIGateway": "192.168.4.1",
  "Timezone": "America/Los_Angeles",
  "NTPServers": "0.centos.pool.ntp.org,1.centos.pool.ntp.org,2.centos.pool.ntp.org,3.centos.pool.ntp.org",
  "DNS": "192.168.2.200,8.8.8.8",
  "SearchDomains": "example.company.com",
  "Nodes": {
	"ac:1f:6b:8a:77:f6": {
  	"NodeId": "ac:1f:6b:8a:77:f6",
  	"Hostname": "Thoughtspot-server1",
  	"DataIface": {
    	"Name": "eth2",
    	"IPv4": "192.168.7.70"
  	},
  	"IPMI": {
    	"IPv4": "192.168.5.70"
  	}
	}
  }
}
----

Commit message:

SCAL-90308 document setting up etc/hosts ascii version
Signed-off-by: Teresa Killmond <teresa.killmond@thoughtspot.com>

software/modules/docs/partials/configure-nodes-steps1through5.adoc, after:

[#node-step-1]
=== Step 1: Log in to your cluster

Log in to your cluster with admin credentials from Terminal on a Mac or a terminal emulator on Windows.
Ask your network administrator if you do not know the admin credentials.

. Run `ssh admin@<nodeIP>`.
+ Replace `nodeIP` with your specific network information.

 $ ssh admin@<nodeIP>

. Enter your admin password at the prompt.
+ Ask your network administrator if you don't know the password.

NOTE: The password does not appear on the screen as you type it.

[#node-step-2]
=== Step 2: Get a template for network configuration

Run the `tscli cluster get-config` command to get a template for network configuration for the new cluster.
Redirect it to the file `nodes.config`.
+ You can find more information on this process in the xref:nodesconfig-example.adoc[`nodes.config` file reference].

 $ tscli cluster get-config |& tee nodes.config

[#node-step-3]
=== Step 3: Prepare node configuration

WARNING: _DNS server_ and _IP address_ values must be set in the cloud backend. It then populates them into the VM configuration. If you specify different values during this step, it can create a temporary mismatch and lead to connectivity issues.

. Add your specific network information for the nodes in the `nodes.config` file, as demonstrated in the xref:nodesconfig-example.adoc#autodiscovery-of-one-node-example[autodiscovery of one node example].
Run `vim nodes.config` to edit the file.
+
----
 $ vim nodes.config
----
+
NOTE: Some of the information in the `nodes.config` file may be pre-populated from earlier steps.
For example, if you specified an IP address while creating VMs, that IP address might already be present in your `nodes.config` file.

. Fill in the areas specified in xref:parameters-nodesconfig.adoc[Parameters of the nodes.config file] with your specific network information.
+
If you have additional nodes, complete each node within the nodes.config file in the same way.
+
Do not edit any part of the `nodes.config` file except the sections described in xref:parameters-nodesconfig.adoc[Parameters of the nodes.config file].
If you delete quotation marks, commas, or other parts of the code, it may cause setup to fail.

. Update the file `/etc/hosts` with all the node IP addresses and hostnames for the other VMs that will be part of the ThoughtSpot cluster.

[#node-step-4]
=== Step 4: Configure the nodes

Configure the nodes in the `nodes.config` file using the `set-config` command.

. Disable the `firewalld` service by running `sudo systemctl stop firewalld` in your terminal.
The `firewalld` service is a Linux firewall that must be off for ThoughtSpot installation.
After the cluster installer reboots the nodes, `firewalld` automatically turns back on.
+
----
 $ sudo systemctl stop firewalld
----

. To make sure you temporarily disabled `firewalld`, run `sudo systemctl status firewalld`.
Your output should specify that `firewalld` is inactive.
It may look something like the following:
+
----
 $ sudo systemctl status firewalld
   ● firewalld.service - firewalld - dynamic firewall daemon
     Loaded: loaded (/usr/lib/systemd/system/firewalld.service; disabled; vendor preset: enabled)
     Active: inactive (dead)
----

. Run the configuration command: `$ cat nodes.config | tscli cluster set-config`.
+ If the command returns an error, refer to xref:set-config-error-recovery[set-config error recovery].
+  After you run the node configuration command, your output appears similar to the following:
+
----
 $ cat nodes.config | tscli cluster set-config

 Connecting to local node-scout
 Setting up hostnames for all nodes
 Setting up networking interfaces on all nodes
 Setting up hosts file on all nodes
 Setting up NTP Servers
 Setting up Timezone
 Done setting up ThoughtSpot
----

[#node-step-5]
=== Step 5: Confirm node configuration

Use the `get-config` command to confirm node configuration.
+ Your output may look similar to the following:

[source,console]
----
$ tscli cluster get-config

{
  "ClusterId": "",
  "ClusterName": "",
  "DataNetmask": "255.255.252.0",
  "DataGateway": "192.168.4.1",
  "IPMINetmask": "255.255.252.0",
  "IPMIGateway": "192.168.4.1",
  "Timezone": "America/Los_Angeles",
  "NTPServers": "0.centos.pool.ntp.org,1.centos.pool.ntp.org,2.centos.pool.ntp.org,3.centos.pool.ntp.org",
  "DNS": "192.168.2.200,8.8.8.8",
  "SearchDomains": "example.company.com",
  "Nodes": {
	"ac:1f:6b:8a:77:f6": {
  	"NodeId": "ac:1f:6b:8a:77:f6",
  	"Hostname": "Thoughtspot-server1",
  	"DataIface": {
    	"Name": "eth2",
    	"IPv4": "192.168.7.70"
  	},
  	"IPMI": {
    	"IPv4": "192.168.5.70"
  	}
	}
  }
}
----
