software/modules/docs/partials/install-cluster-error-recovery.adoc, before:

[#set-config-error-recovery]
== Error recovery

=== `Set-config` error recovery

If you get a warning about node detection when you run the `set-config` command, restart the node-scout service.

Your error may look something like the following:

----
Connecting to local node-scout WARNING: Detected 0 nodes, but found configuration for
only 1 nodes.
Continuing anyway. Error in cluster config validation: [] is not a valid link-local
IPv6 address for node: 0e:86:e2:23:8f:76 Configuration failed.
Please retry or contact support.
----

Restart the node-scout service with the following command:
[source,console]
----
 $ sudo systemctl restart node-scout
----

Ensure that you restarted the node-scout by running `sudo systemctl status node-scout`.
Your output should specify that the node-scout service is active.
It may look something like the following:

 $ sudo systemctl status node-scout
   ● node-scout.service - Setup Node Scout service
     Loaded: loaded (/etc/systemd/system/node-scout.service; enabled; vendor preset: disabled)
     Active: active (running) since Fri 2019-12-06 13:56:29 PST; 4s ago

Next, retry the `set-config` command.

[source,console]
----
 $ cat nodes.config | tscli cluster set-config
----

The command output should no longer have a warning.

Commit message:

edited command in install-cluster-error-recover partial to match 6.0
Signed-off-by: naomi.lattanzi <naomi.lattanzi@thoughtspot.com>

software/modules/docs/partials/install-cluster-error-recovery.adoc, after:

[#set-config-error-recovery]
== Error recovery

=== `Set-config` error recovery

If you get a warning about node detection when you run the `set-config` command, restart the node-scout service.

Your error may look something like the following:

----
Connecting to local node-scout WARNING: Detected 0 nodes, but found configuration for
only 1 nodes.
Continuing anyway. Error in cluster config validation: [] is not a valid link-local
IPv6 address for node: 0e:86:e2:23:8f:76 Configuration failed.
Please retry or contact support.
----

Restart the node-scout service with the following set of commands:
[source,console]
----
 $ sudo vim /etc/systemd/system/node-scout.service
 $ sudo systemctl daemon-reload
 $ sudo systemctl restart node-scout
----

Ensure that you restarted the node-scout by running `sudo systemctl status node-scout`.
Your output should specify that the node-scout service is active.
It may look something like the following:

 $ sudo systemctl status node-scout
   ● node-scout.service - Setup Node Scout service
     Loaded: loaded (/etc/systemd/system/node-scout.service; enabled; vendor preset: disabled)
     Active: active (running) since Fri 2019-12-06 13:56:29 PST; 4s ago

Next, retry the `set-config` command.

[source,console]
----
 $ cat nodes.config | tscli cluster set-config
----

The command output should no longer have a warning.
