software/modules/docs/partials/log_in_out.adoc, before:

To set up and explore your data, access the ThoughtSpot application from a standard Web browser using a username and password.

[options="interactive"]
.Before accessing ThoughtSpot, you need:
* [ ] The Web address (IP address or server name) for ThoughtSpot
* [ ] A network connection
* [ ] A Web browser
* [ ] A username and password for ThoughtSpot.

== Supported Web browsers

We verified that the following browsers work well with the ThoughtSpot application:

include::partial$browser-support.adoc[]

== Sign in

To sign in to ThoughtSpot from a browser:

. Open the browser and type in the Web address for ThoughtSpot:
+
`+http://HOSTNAME_OR_IP+`

. Enter your username and password, and click *Sign In*.
+
image::ts-login-page.png[Log in to ThoughtSpot]

== Sign out

After you finish the search session, you can optionally sign out of ThoughtSpot.
To sign out of ThoughtSpot from a browser:

. Click your user icon at the top right hand corner of the screen.
. Click *Sign out*.
+
image::log-out-new.png[Log out]

Commit message:

additional notes on deprecation of internet explorer
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

software/modules/docs/partials/log_in_out.adoc, after:

To set up and explore your data, access the ThoughtSpot application from a standard Web browser using a username and password.

[options="interactive"]
.Before accessing ThoughtSpot, you need:
* [ ] The Web address (IP address or server name) for ThoughtSpot
* [ ] A network connection
* [ ] A Web browser
* [ ] A username and password for ThoughtSpot.

== Supported Web browsers

We verified that the following browsers work well with the ThoughtSpot application:

include::partial$browser-support.adoc[]

TIP: While Internet Explorer is supported in ThoughtSpot versions 6.3.0 and earlier, using it is not recommended. Depending on your environment, you can experience performance or UI issues when using IE.

== Sign in

To sign in to ThoughtSpot from a browser:

. Open the browser and type in the Web address for ThoughtSpot:
+
`+http://HOSTNAME_OR_IP+`

. Enter your username and password, and click *Sign In*.
+
image::ts-login-page.png[Log in to ThoughtSpot]

== Sign out

After you finish the search session, you can optionally sign out of ThoughtSpot.
To sign out of ThoughtSpot from a browser:

. Click your user icon at the top right hand corner of the screen.
. Click *Sign out*.
+
image::log-out-new.png[Log out]
