cloud/modules/ROOT/pages/admin/setup/customize-style.adoc, before:

'''

title: [Customize look and feel]

last_updated: tbd summary: "You can brand the ThoughtSpot application for your company." sidebar: mydoc_sidebar permalink: /:collection/:path.html -- You can customize the look and feel of the ThoughtSpot application for your company.
Configuring these settings sets system-wide defaults for all your users.

Style customization is enabled by default.
You can configure your cluster to disable this functionality.
xref:support-contact.adoc[Contact ThoughtSpot Support] about disabling this feature.

== Where to customize styles

A user with administrative rights can view and access the customization on the *Admin* page.

image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/custom-style.png[]

Use the *Style Customization* page to access the configuration settings.

== General guidelines for customization

Your changes take effect either immediately or with browser refresh.
You can revert your changes by using the *Reset* button which displays when your cursor moves to the right of any setting.

image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/custom-style-reset.png[]

The following table lists the style customizations you can configure.+++<table>++++++<tr>++++++<th>+++Setting+++</th>+++
    +++<th>+++Description+++</th>++++++</tr>+++
  +++<tr>++++++<th>+++Application Logo (Default) & Favicon+++</th>+++
    +++<td>+++Sets a default application and favicon logo. This should be 140 pixels square.+++</td>++++++</tr>+++
  +++<tr>++++++<th>+++Application Logo (Wide)+++</th>+++
    +++<td>+++This logo should be 440 x 100 pixels.+++</td>++++++</tr>+++
  +++<tr>++++++<th>+++Chart Visualization Fonts+++</th>+++
    +++<td>+++Set a font for chart labels. You can specify any Web Open Font Format (`WOFF`) file.+++</td>++++++</tr>+++
  +++<tr>++++++<th>+++Table Visualization Fonts+++</th>+++
    +++<td>+++Set a font for table labels. You can specify any Web Open Font Format (`WOFF`) file.+++</td>++++++</tr>+++
  +++<tr>++++++<th>+++Embedded Application Background+++</th>+++
    +++<td>+++Set the background for an embedded ThoughtSpot instance. This is only used if you are embedding ThoughtSpot in another application.+++</td>++++++</tr>+++
  +++<tr>++++++<th>+++Chart Color Palettes+++</th>+++
    +++<td>+++Set the default palette for all charts. To set a value, however over a color value and enter a HEX value or select one from the chart. Individual users can still customize their own chart colors. They can use the **Reset colors** option on a chart to clear their changes.+++</td>++++++</tr>+++
  +++<tr>++++++<th>+++Footer text+++</th>+++
    +++<td>+++Define a footer to appear with the ThoughtSpot application.+++</td>++++++</tr>+++
  +++<tr>++++++<th>+++Page title+++</th>+++
    +++<td>+++Sets the title for the browser tab.+++</td>++++++</tr>++++++</table>+++

== How to specify fonts

You can set your systems default fonts by specifying either or both of the *Chart Visualization Fonts* and *Table Visualization Fonts* values.
To set this values, your font must be defined in a Web Open Font Format (`WOFF`) file.

Changes to chart and table defaults apply only to charts and features created _after_ you configure a value.
If you change table fonts, older tables retain their previous fonts.
Some settings can be overridden on a per-object level.
Users cannot configure their own defaults.

To set a new font:

image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/custom-style-font.png[]

. Make sure you have a WOFF file available for your font.
. Select the label you want to change.
. Click the *+* button.
+
The system displays the *Custom Font* dialog.

. Click the *Custom Font* field.
+
The system displays the file finder.

. Add the `WOFF` file you want.
+
The file appears in the font dialog

. Click *Save* to change the font.

== How to specify the behavior or clickable links in data

There is a system-wide setting which determines what happens when a user clicks on a link within the data.
When your data includes URLs, they display as clickable links in ThoughtSpot tables.
By default, clicking on a link opens the URL in a separate tab.
But there is a system-wide setting that can be changed to open the links within the context in which they appear.

Changing this setting opens the links:

[cols=2*]
|===
| Link type
| Opens in

| Link in search result table in ThoughtSpot
| Same browser tab as ThoughtSpot application

| Link in table embedded in an iFrame
| Same iFrame that contains the table

| Link in full ThoughtSpot application embedded in an iFrame
| Same iFrame that contains the application
|===

Commit message:

admin setup
Signed-off-by: Naomi <>

cloud/modules/ROOT/pages/admin/setup/customize-style.adoc, after:

= Customize look and feel
:last_updated: tbd
:linkattrs:
:experimental:
:page-aliases: /admin/setup/customize-style.adoc
:description: You can brand the ThoughtSpot application for your company.

You can customize the look and feel of the ThoughtSpot application for your company.
Configuring these settings sets system-wide defaults for all your users.

Style customization is enabled by default.
You can configure your cluster to disable this functionality.
xref:support-contact.adoc[Contact ThoughtSpot Support] about disabling this feature.

== Where to customize styles

A user with administrative rights can view and access the customization on the *Admin* page.

image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/custom-style.png[]

Use the *Style Customization* page to access the configuration settings.

== General guidelines for customization

Your changes take effect either immediately or with browser refresh.
You can revert your changes by using the *Reset* button which displays when your cursor moves to the right of any setting.

image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/custom-style-reset.png[]

The following table lists the style customizations you can configure.+++<table>++++++<tr>++++++<th>+++Setting+++</th>+++
    +++<th>+++Description+++</th>++++++</tr>+++
  +++<tr>++++++<th>+++Application Logo (Default) & Favicon+++</th>+++
    +++<td>+++Sets a default application and favicon logo. This should be 140 pixels square.+++</td>++++++</tr>+++
  +++<tr>++++++<th>+++Application Logo (Wide)+++</th>+++
    +++<td>+++This logo should be 440 x 100 pixels.+++</td>++++++</tr>+++
  +++<tr>++++++<th>+++Chart Visualization Fonts+++</th>+++
    +++<td>+++Set a font for chart labels. You can specify any Web Open Font Format (`WOFF`) file.+++</td>++++++</tr>+++
  +++<tr>++++++<th>+++Table Visualization Fonts+++</th>+++
    +++<td>+++Set a font for table labels. You can specify any Web Open Font Format (`WOFF`) file.+++</td>++++++</tr>+++
  +++<tr>++++++<th>+++Embedded Application Background+++</th>+++
    +++<td>+++Set the background for an embedded ThoughtSpot instance. This is only used if you are embedding ThoughtSpot in another application.+++</td>++++++</tr>+++
  +++<tr>++++++<th>+++Chart Color Palettes+++</th>+++
    +++<td>+++Set the default palette for all charts. To set a value, however over a color value and enter a HEX value or select one from the chart. Individual users can still customize their own chart colors. They can use the **Reset colors** option on a chart to clear their changes.+++</td>++++++</tr>+++
  +++<tr>++++++<th>+++Footer text+++</th>+++
    +++<td>+++Define a footer to appear with the ThoughtSpot application.+++</td>++++++</tr>+++
  +++<tr>++++++<th>+++Page title+++</th>+++
    +++<td>+++Sets the title for the browser tab.+++</td>++++++</tr>++++++</table>+++

== How to specify fonts

You can set your systems default fonts by specifying either or both of the *Chart Visualization Fonts* and *Table Visualization Fonts* values.
To set this values, your font must be defined in a Web Open Font Format (`WOFF`) file.

Changes to chart and table defaults apply only to charts and features created _after_ you configure a value.
If you change table fonts, older tables retain their previous fonts.
Some settings can be overridden on a per-object level.
Users cannot configure their own defaults.

To set a new font:

image::{{ site.baseurl }}/images/custom-style-font.png[]

. Make sure you have a WOFF file available for your font.
. Select the label you want to change.
. Click the *+* button.
+
The system displays the *Custom Font* dialog.

. Click the *Custom Font* field.
+
The system displays the file finder.

. Add the `WOFF` file you want.
+
The file appears in the font dialog

. Click *Save* to change the font.

== How to specify the behavior or clickable links in data

There is a system-wide setting which determines what happens when a user clicks on a link within the data.
When your data includes URLs, they display as clickable links in ThoughtSpot tables.
By default, clicking on a link opens the URL in a separate tab.
But there is a system-wide setting that can be changed to open the links within the context in which they appear.

Changing this setting opens the links:

[cols=2*]
|===
| Link type
| Opens in

| Link in search result table in ThoughtSpot
| Same browser tab as ThoughtSpot application

| Link in table embedded in an iFrame
| Same iFrame that contains the table

| Link in full ThoughtSpot application embedded in an iFrame
| Same iFrame that contains the application
|===
